[music] After 20 years of financial
repression, we're back to live markets.
The market's probably going to take off
again.
>> We still see a lot of upside opportunity
in US markets.
>> I wouldn't really bet against the US.
>> The US bond market is still the closest
thing to a risk-free asset that there
actually is.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, recovering from a major
storm. Travelers bracing for deepening
disruption to begin the working week.
The Japanese yen extending gains driven
by elevated intervention risk. And gold
smashing through 5K, building on a
record-breaking rally. Gold on a six-day
winning run.
>> It's been incredible, building on the
momentum we saw last year when gold had
its best [music] year since 1979. and
really pick your poison as to why gold
is has this record run topping $5,000 a
troy ounce today at the very start of
2025. We're still only three and a half
weeks into this new [music] year. It
could be anything. There's geopolitical
tensions. The US domestic politics right
now on [music] edge. You have demand
from central banks at historically high
levels. Whatever you want to say, all
travels right now, all directions seem
to lead to gold.
>> I'll use a word that the prime minister
of [music] Canada used in the last week
or so. Rupture. a rupture in foreign
relations. Nobody's house [music] is in
order. Nobody's house is in order. So if
you want to sound the dollar, what are
you buying? That's why you're turning to
precious metals. It's more fuel, more
oxygen for a trade even at these lofty
levels.
>> It's a very good point. You do have the
US right now in order, especially now
potentially. Jonathan, [music] we could
be barreling down a government shutdown,
a partial US government shutdown this
Friday. Also, what is going on with
Japan? You have snap elections. We saw
this play out in financial markets last
week. Basically what everyone is pricing
in the fiscal story dominance [music] of
all these countries will continue.
>> This was a push back from the market in
the last week or so from the JGB market
to be precise. Japan doesn't just have
an FX problem. This is a symptom. It has
a debt problem and that's the issue at
hand here. Even if you get [music] that
intervention, does it address the root
cause? And a lot of people in this
market would argue no. Yes, dollar yen's
got a big move today down to 15359, but
there's some problems they need to
address and it's more than just FX
intervention. Well, part of this is that
the prime minister's coming in calling a
snap election. She really wants to
fortify the fact that she [music] should
be running this country and her
policies. Well, when you she scheduled
that election, there was a bomb market
meltdown. Why? Because her pledge on the
campaign trail to wave a sales tax on
groceries for 2 years. Just more of
these populist policies we are seeing
around the world. And that is just going
to breed higher debt levels because
they're going to be pumping more money.
>> We got to talk about this storm as well
away from the markets, the winter storm.
[music] Word of advice, don't do what we
did this morning. If you can avoid it,
don't go to work. Avoid the roads. They
are absolutely terrible. We've seen the
flight cancellations just yesterday.
11,600
on Sunday alone. Already this morning,
more than 3 and a half thousand flight
cancellations.
>> No snow days for Bloomberg TV. Most
flight cancellations since co that
statistic is incredible. And then
[music] of course today around 1:30 a.m.
So expect this number to just continuing
to [music] rise. As you say, 3,500
flights are going to be cancelled. You
have to be careful if you are uh going
in traveling, whether or not that's by
plane, but getting to the plane, I mean,
the streets, [music] Jonathan, you saw
them. They're okay, but it's not great.
I mean, you have to add at least [music]
another 30 minutes to your travel time
if you're traveling by car this morning
in the tri-state area.
>> And some and some. If you're just
joining us, welcome to the program.
Stack [music] program. No idea if the
guests show up in studio. We'll see if
that happens a little bit later this
morning. Futures negative by about a
tenth of 1% on the S&P. [music] Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Russ
Costrich of Black Rockck on elevated
geopolitical risk. Amy Gower of Morgan
Stanley with gold on a record-breaking
rally. And Mike Dada of Roth Capital
looking ahead to this week's Fed
meeting. We begin this hour with gold at
fresh all-time highs. Russ of Black
Rockck writing, "While gold has had an
extraordinary run, we continue to
maintain a modest position. The yellow
metal has demonstrated that its value as
a hedge against both the debasement
trade as well as ongoing geopolitical
and headline risk." Russ joins us now
for more. Russ, welcome to the program,
buddy. Let's talk about this move
through 5K, a clean break and some.
What's next for this one?
>> Well, good morning, Jonathan. With gold,
I I don't think there's any objective
way of coming up with a target. But, you
know, part of the reason gold is doing
so well is unlike other assets, we can't
sit here and say, well, it's overvalued.
Because again, the the value of gold is
always what people are willing to pay.
And I think as you talked about in the
leadin in this environment where you
have both fiscal issues in most
developed countries not just the US but
Japan, the United Kingdom, France and
obviously geopolitical risk that is
growing rather than shrinking. Gold
works in a portfolio because it's one of
the few assets that actually hedges
against those types of risks.
>> So Russ, let's just pair what we saw
with gold in the last week with what we
saw in the FX market. the dollar, the
biggest weekly drop since May last year
on a week where gold had the best week
since 2020. Are you expecting more of
the same kind of thing to come and is
that a hedge against dollar weakness or
a hedge against something more than
that?
>> I think it is a hedge against multiple
things, but I definitely agree it is a
hedge against dollar weakness. A matter
of fact, you know, one of the things
that's really happened postco is a lot
of these long-standing correlations have
broken down. You know, for a long time,
bonds worked as a uh a hedge against
equities. And what we've seen over the
last five, six years is much less
stability in these interasset class
correlations. One that's held up and
expect to keep holding up because it's
very fundamental is gold moving in the
opposite direction of the dollar. If
you're worried about the so-called US
debasement trade, if you're worried
about US debt, if you're worried about
the hegemony of the dollar, gold is
generally going to do well in those
environments. Russ, how do equities
trade with that backdrop?
>> You know, that's the funny thing.
Equities and gold actually have not been
that negatively correlated. And for a
lot of 2025,
gold and equities have been moving
together. So, I don't think on a daily
basis, you know, if you wake up and the
S&P futures are down 1%, you can
immediately assume that gold is going to
be up. but is a portfolio diversifier.
And again, trying to think about some of
these risks, whether they're
geopolitical or the long-term risk
around US debt, those are risks where I
think gold does a very effective job,
not necessarily the day-to-day
fluctuations in the stock market.
>> Russ, it doesn't seem like these risks
are going away. And your note says you
have a modest position. Do you think
you're going to add more from here?
>> I think we're probably about where we
want to be. you know, it's one of those
assets where you have to be careful
because as we've seen in some of the uh
the moves particularly back in 2022, you
know, gold can also go down very
abruptly. So, you know, the exact
percentage depends very much on what
else you have in the portfolio, but
within a classic 6040 portfolio
somewhere around a 3, four, 5% position
that seems to work well uh particularly
in environments like this where you're
trying to compensate for those hard to
quantify risks. We also saw silver
absolutely on a tear as well overnight.
Do you think this bodess well for the
entire commodity complex?
>> I think there are a few things going on.
I mean certainly gold and silver are
moving in tandem. Part of that is silver
while obviously not as liquid uh not as
popular. Still a a precious metal that's
used to hedge uh against these type of
risks we've been talking about. But
there's also a broader rally going on in
many commodities and certainly uh metals
like copper which are tied to the uh the
electrification trade. So in general
we're in an environment where a couple
things are happening. You have these
concerns, these geopolitical concerns,
concerns about debt, but then you also
have a very significant infrastructure
buildout going on. Whether we're talking
about data centers, we're talking about
the grid, we're talking about power,
many of these metals are absolutely
necessary as that buildout continues.
And our view is that is a multi-year
trend, which means that this uh support
for metals, not just precious metals,
that's likely to continue.
>> As for the AI transition, plenty of
earnings this week. We've got Meta and
Microsoft on Wednesday, Thursday, Apple.
Next week, we'll hear from Google and
Amazon. Russ, I want to talk about this
move in Japan. Ken Griffin put it this
way of Citadel just last week over in
Davos, Switzerland. I actually think
there's an explicit warning that if your
fiscal house is not in order, the bond
vigilantes can come out and retract
their price. We saw that move in
Japanese government bonds in the last
week. Russ, what was the signal you took
away from the convulsions in sovereign
debt?
>> Well, you know, look, the move in Japan
has been very real. It's been very
dramatic. And I think we we used to joke
we call that the widowmaker trade.
People have been looking to short the
Japanese bond market for years if not
decades. Obviously, a few things have
happened. Uh Japan over the last several
years has really exited the the
deflation which plagued that economy for
decades. At the same time, you have a
new prime minister that is looking to
use fiscal stimulus to support the
economy. We're seeing this in most of
the developed world. So the fact that
you're having this move in the Japanese
bond market while at times violent, it's
not a shock. What's interesting is yes,
we've seen a little bit of a move higher
in US yields, but in general, despite
what's happened to Japanese bond market,
despite what's happened geopolitically,
we haven't really seen the US tenure
break out of the range it's been in for
quite some time now. And if anything, US
rates bond volatility is fairly low. So
I do think you've got some concerns
about the long end of the curve. You do
have some concerns about whether or not
you're being adequately compensated by
the term premium for going long US debt.
But in terms of the spillover effect, US
bonds have been relatively stable
despite what's been happening in Japan.
>> So Russ, that's a great observation and
one that I share as well. I've been
looking at the same thing. The fact that
we sit here at 420 this morning on 10
year given all the craziness is pretty
remarkable. What do you think is
insulating the US government bond market
from the rupture to use Carnie's word
again in JGBs?
>> A couple of things. I think one the the
spillover effects from Japan to the rest
of the world again they're they're not
always as dramatic as people make them
out to be. But I also think the factors
that have supported the US bond market
despite the levels of debt, despite the
concerns about uh a sell America trade
remain in place. Uh the fact is there's
still no obvious short-term replacement
for the dollar. We also have an
environment where inflation, while not
at the Fed's target, has been heading in
the right direction. We haven't seen the
type of stagflation that people were
talking about back in liberation day. Uh
and there's still an opportunity to pick
up some yield in a portfolio, not just
in the Treasury market, but more broadly
in the credit markets. You know, again,
we're still in a world where for the
first time since, you know, the mid
2000s, you can build a fairly high
yielding portfolio without taking a lot
of credit risk, without taking a lot of
duration risk. And again, talking to
clients that's still fairly attractive
for a lot of people that were not able
to access yield for a very long time.
>> 30s this morning at 480, 10 to 420.
Russ, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Russ Krook there of Black Rockck on
fixed income at the end. Conversation
also about what's developing in Japan.
Check out dollar yen down to 15353
on that currency pair. We're negative
about 1.4%. Some real yen strength in
the face of potentially intervention
risk. We'll get to that a little bit
later. Let's give an update on stories
worldwide this morning. Plenty to cover
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie
Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Good morning. A massive winter
storm [music] hitting the US East Coast
on Sunday, bringing heavy snow and ice,
straining electric grids and grounding
thousands [music] of flights. Parts of
Texas and the Midsouth were coated in
freezing rain, enough to [music] take
down power lines. More than 1 million
homes and businesses across the US lost
[music] electricity.
The CEOs of more than 60 Minnesota based
[music] companies are calling for an
immediate deescalation of tensions
between federal, state, and local
authorities. This following the [music]
shooting of a US citizen this weekend.
The Minnesota Chamber of Commerce
sharing a letter signed by [music] chief
executives from companies including
Target, Best Buy, and General Mills.
The European Union is probing Elon
Musk's X over concerns it failed to
prevent [music] its Grock AI chatbot
from generating deep fake images of
children. The investigation will check
whether X properly assessed and
mitigated risks associated with the
deployment of Grock. Officials from the
social [music] media app saying they
have removed illegal content and are
working with law enforcement. And that
is your Bloomberg Group. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
later this hour. Up next on a program
shaking up global alliances
>> on the Greenland issue. Um I disagree
with the president. What we need to do
is to bring down the temperature. We
live in an era of great power rivalry.
The rules-based order is fading. An
endless accumulation of new tariffs that
are fundamentally unacceptable.
>> When friends shake hands, it must mean
something. Up next, we'll catch up with
the former House Financial Services
Committee Chair, Patrick [music]
Mckendry.
[music]
>> [music]
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. Big week,
absolutely stacked week still ahead of
us. We'll hear from the president in
about 24 hours time. He's got a big
speech in Iowa. Look out for that on
Wednesday. A Federal Reserve interest
rate decision. And after the bell, we've
got some earnings to get through. You'll
get numbers from Microsoft and Meta. The
day after that, we'll hear from Apple.
Lots to look forward to. [music] Equity
futures so far this morning pulling back
by just 2/10en of 1% on the S&P. We're
down a third on the NASDAQ. On the
Russell, we're down about a quarter of
1%. [music]
Under Sylvanas this morning, a rupture
in foreign relations
on the Greenland issue. Um I disagree
with the president. What we need to do
is to bring down the temperature.
>> We live in an era of great power
rivalry. The rules-based order is
fading. with an endless accumulation of
new tariffs that are fundamentally
unacceptable.
>> The use of tariffs against allies is
completely wrong.
>> When friends shake hands, it must mean
something.
>> It looks like we have the concept of it
gets everything we wanted, including
especially real national security.
>> He again has been able to take
leadership on this issue. The process of
getting to that agreement has clearly
damaged trust amongst allies. No doubt
the rhetoric we we have heard the last
year is unacceptable for us.
>> So here's the latest this morning. World
leaders emerging from Davos with a world
order tested. President Donald Trump
saying he'll hit Canada with a 100%
tariff if the country becomes a drop off
port for Chinese exports. Joining us now
is Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Tyler, is
there an appreciation for just how
offended American allies actually are at
the moment?
Well, John, at this point, considering
the White House's staunch threats
against our allies, I'm not totally sure
that we did hear the US Treasury
Secretary Scott Besset in an interview
over the weekend appear to temper the
president's threats when it does come to
Canada, saying that if they do not
pursue a free trade deal, as the
Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney said
over the weekend, then these tariffs
wouldn't end up going into effect.
Though we have to keep in mind here that
the relation uh between Trump and Carney
has long been strained, right? Carney
largely campaigned on countering this
White House when it comes to trade and
there has been mounting frustration
between both of the sides amid a lack of
progress on a trade deal. While yes, a
lot of the Canadian exports to the US
are shielded by the US MCA, there is
still huge exposure when it comes to
those sector specific tariffs,
particularly like steel. And that is why
this escalation is likely previewing
what is going to be months of
positioning ahead of the renegotiation
for the USMCA this summer. I spoke to
one senior administration official over
the weekend who told me that the US is
going to maintain the posture that this
is only going to complicate matters for
Canada going forward. That ultimately uh
we're going to see more economic risk
they said to Canada because their
economy is smaller and less diversified.
Which brings us to the reason why
President Trump is upset in the first
place because they are reaching out to
those other trading partners like China.
Though just for quick context here,
Canada does about onetenth of the trade
it does with the US with China. So we're
talking about a very small portion. This
emerging deal is supposed to be a lot
limited in scope. But John uh to your
question on whether or not uh this is uh
materializing the US is realizing these
deeper rifts. I will say it's not
necessarily deterring our allies. I'll
point out to that today Canada's energy
minister is actually in India to pursue
to pursue some more trade agreements
there.
>> Tana Kendall with the latest in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. Thank you
very much. We discussed this a lot
extensively in the last week or so.
Let's just park trade. There are
legitimate criticisms of Europe to make
and we've had them extensively on this
program and I think they're justified in
many ways. We can talk about the style.
Okay, that's one thing. But the
substance, a lot of Europeans might
agree with some of the substance coming
out of the the US administration where
the administration crossed the line in
the last couple of days and this is
without debate. they crossed the line by
questioning the involvement of NATO
allies on the front lines over the last
20 plus years is a step too far and I
don't think the significant appreciation
on this side of the transatlantic
relationship to what extent the
Europeans are offended by some of the
comments from the president in the last
couple of days.
>> Karma, the prime minister of England out
of all the NATO countries that came to
the US when they triggered article 5. By
the way, the only time Article 5 has
ever been triggered was after 911. And
then you saw British troops in
Afghanistan. More than 400 British
soldiers died. Kirst called it appalling
and wanted an apology. Now, we did see
the president take to truth social. Not
sure it's done enough. You then came out
and saw Georgia Maloney, the prime
minister of Italy, also talk about the
fact that their sacrifices of these
countries should be recognized and they
are not warming up to this language the
president is using and potentially this
does cross a red line for them and it's
going to mean a lot more fraction going
forward with the European Union.
>> Let's extend the conversation. Patrick
Mckenry, the former House Financial
Services Committee chair joined us now
for more. Patrick, welcome to the
program. Allies have disagreements
behind closed doors and sometimes they
spill out into public and we've covered
many of those disagreements over the
last several years. This feels like it's
something more than that. What's your
perspective on things?
>> There's always a moment like this in
every Trump administration where they
say it will never be the same after this
moment and it largely goes back to what
it was before. Uh this should not be a
surprise to the Europeans. President
Trump when he announced he's going to
Davos was going to control the terms of
debate and the items discussed and he in
fact did that. Now coming out of Europe
the off-handed comments the president
made about uh Europe's and NATO's
commitment post 911 uh that is something
different. I mean, we have allies that
put lives at risk uh in America's
national security interest, their
national security interest as well, but
the sacrifice is real. And whenever you
talk about the loss of life for our
friends and allies or any nationality,
uh that nationality will be deeply
offended because it's uh it's their
blood, sweat, and tears uh that that was
sacrificed and it was their young men
and women that went and fought and died.
And so, you know, that that is uh
obviously deeply offensive to our
allies. But the larger discussion here,
we have to step back one aperture and
realize uh this is a shakeup uh but not
a permanent fissure or rupture.
>> But can this do any long-term damage?
>> Uh, of course. Look, the Europeans uh in
the world thought uh the first Trump
election was a one-off thing and they
didn't need to take him seriously. uh
coming back the second time, a second
administration, the world realizes this
is something to take seriously. Uh but
they make a mistake in taking every one
of President Trump's statements
literally. Um and they have to get past
the noise and get into the substance.
That has always been the challenge with
uh Trump's style is that uh everyone
hangs on every sentence and tries to
take it literally rather than trying to
understand what the president's going
for. Um and I think that is largely what
we're dealing with right now.
>> Do you expect any immediate blowback?
Jonathan talks a lot about the fact that
when the president was really jawboning
prime then prime minister Trudeau
calling up Governor Trudeau. You saw the
country rally behind the liberal party
even though the conservative was in the
moment leading in the polls. Pv. Now you
have another truth from the president
talking about Governor Carney, Mark
Carney. Do you think there is going to
be damage in the sense that the
administration is going to force other
populations to rally behind liberals
instead of conservatives that they
actually think they could probably work
better with?
>> Well, imagine this. Would you have
predicted on on inauguration day that
the pre that President Trump would have
a better relationship with the Mexican
government than he would with the
Canadian government
>> [laughter]
>> uh one year in? Um, and look, I'm Mark
Carney is a is a different cat than uh
his predecessor has has a different set
of politics, a different set of
strengths. Uh, and I think the president
has to adapt to that change reality. Um,
frankly, we see uh in Canada's reaction,
the immediate effect of of the
aggressive stance President Trump has
has taken is that we have fewer Canadian
tourists uh coming south. Uh, and I
think you see that uh in a re rekindled
sense of Canadian nationalism as a
result of of of the president's tactics
here. Uh, look, I don't know how this
will shake out, but clearly we have a
massive trading relationship with
Canada. It's a very important trading
relationship that Canada has with the
United States. We're a huge market for
them. Uh, we do need to work something
out. Um and uh and I think we have to
get past this very strong rhetoric from
both sides and and get to the reality of
a of a better trading relationship,
better trading understanding.
>> Patrick, it's always good to hear from
you, sir. Thank you. Patrick Mckenry
there, the former House Financial
Services Committee Chair. Patrick's
right. We've had moments where we've all
sat here and said something's changed
and then you've gone back to exactly
where we were before. You mentioned
Canada. I'm pleased you brought it up.
We've talked about it a lot on this
program. A diplomatic spat became an
economic problem. And my question
walking away from last week is whether
the diplomatic spat in Europe becomes an
economic problem. Whether the same kind
of trends you saw emerge in the Canadian
economy start to emerge out of Europe as
well.
>> Well, actually the number one trending
app right now in Denmark for free is an
app that tells you what products are
Americanbased so you can boycott them.
That is trending right now in Norway, in
Iceland, the Danes. They are actively
trying to stay away. Now these are just
everyday consumers. They're going to the
grocery store looking up products and
they do not want to buy American because
they don't like the rhetoric coming out
of this White House.
>> That's a situation we all need to avoid.
Question is, are we crossed the line in
[music] the last week? Futures right now
on the S&P just about negative by 210 of
1%. Up next, we'll catch up with Amy Gar
of Morgan Stanley with Gold [music] on a
record-breaking run. Plus, Danny has
your morning movers. USA rare earth
jumping 36.9% [music]
in the pre-market.
>> [music]
>> Three [music] days no losses on the S&P
500, but unable to avoid a weekly
decline on the S&P just last week.
Coming into Monday morning, we're down
about 210 of 1%. No real drama here. On
the NASDAQ, down by a third. On the
Russell, we're down by a third of 1%.
Also, we'll talk about this massive
small cap [music] run that we've seen
over the last several months and whether
this has got enough oxygen given that so
many of you are already expecting an
economic boom at least over the next
couple of quarters in this country.
Let's turn to the bond market. [music]
Very interesting week in the bond
market. Twos and 10's pretty stable in
the face of what happened in Japan. Tens
[music] are back down to 420's at 35836
going into the Fed meeting on Wednesday
and no change expected [music] to policy
just yet from the FOMC. The big towel
was in the FX market and in precious
metals last week. DXY posting the first
weekly [music] drop of the year. The
worst weekly drop we've seen going back
to May of last year. More weakness again
this morning. We're down a half of 1% on
the same week. Gold a rip roaring rally
last week. [music] The biggest one since
2020. Up by close to 9%. 8.52%
higher to [music] be precise. And up
again two percentage points this
morning. Blasting through 5K.
>> It's unbelievable. And all the banks
have now having to like look at where
their [music] price targets are and
they're like, "Oh, we need to reevaluate
this." Goldman on Friday tweaked its
year-end price target to $5,400 an
ounce. Their previous call, they blew
past just three first [music] three
weeks of the year, $4,900 an ounce. Bank
of America, Michael Hartick coming out
saying, quote, "History is not a guide
to the future, [music] but the average
increase in gold during four upward
cycles was about 300% over 43 months,
[music] which means the gold price could
reach 6,000 by spring." 6,000. That is
just in a few months according to Bank
of America. [music]
>> 5K sounded nuts 18 months ago and and
here we are. So, who am I to question
any of this right now? Gold approaching
5100 and higher by 2%. So, that's the FX
precious medal story. Let's turn to
what's happening [music] in Japan.
Dollar yen down to 15378. Dolly yen
negative on the session by 1.2%.
Intervention risk incredibly elevated
going into the weekend and coming into
this week. What kind of action could we
see and what kind of coordinated action
could we see between [music] Japan and
the United States? So basically you have
the New York Fed running these so-called
rate [music] track rate checks inquires
about pricing and that could proceed
direct intervention while the market is
[music] taking this as potentially we
will see that intervention. The Treasury
Secretary spoke about Japan at length
when he was in Davos which is why a lot
of people are reading the tea leaves
[music] and saying this is something
potentially you can see coordinated
between Washington and Tokyo remains to
be seen but this is something for sure
the FX market is watching. [music] This
is an important signal. The bond market
pushing back and the FX problems. We
talked about this about 30 minutes ago.
Never mind the intervention. [music]
Japan has a debt problem. Let's talk
about why we're here. We're here because
Taichi in the minds of many is going to
push for some kind of tax relief, some
kind of tax cut. And the market's
pushing back. That's the problem you've
got [music] to address here in Japan.
And to Kane Griffin's point, what you've
seen in the last week or so [music] in
the Japanese government bond market
should be a warning for everybody that
when you take it too far, this market
will push back. She wants to spend
billions of dollars of a fiscal support
in in [music] Japan, including things
like waving a sales tax on food for that
minimum two years. And that is why she
called these elections [music] cuz she
wants to have her coalition have a very
strong grip on power. And given the fact
that she won, it looks like her
coalition will [music] do well, which
basically means that fiscal impulse is
coming. For much of our careers, going
back decades, for many of you sitting at
home who [music] have lived through many
a cycle, the Japanese government bond
market has been an anchor around global
interest rates for a long, long time.
Anchors [music] away. There's no support
anymore coming from Japan. What's
intriguing is just how insulated the US
bond market has been so far given
[music] the rupture, the convulsions
we're seeing in the Japanese debt
market. Russ of Black Rockck noting the
same thing about 30 minutes ago on this
program. Can that continue is a big
question in fixed income. As we count
you down to the opening balance, let's
get you some [music] single names, some
big movers out there in the pre-market,
three hours away from the cash open.
Let's catch up with Danny for more. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. Everything that happened over
the weekend itself would have been
enough to say, "Wow, this year has been
[music] something." And that just adds
on. So whether the intervention risk
you're talking about, more odds of a
government shutdown, threatening more
tariffs on Canada, as you showed, it's
playing through gold with gold above
$5,000 and that's sending the gold
[music] miners much, much higher this
morning. New Mount up 4.2%. It's Barrack
Mining that's up 3.3%. Both of those
when they open, it [music] means they
will open at new record highs after
closing at record highs on Friday. A
little bit of deal news or a lack of a
deal. There had been some earlier
reports that suggested that Merc would
be buying this company, Revolution
Medicines. That deal [music] has fallen
apart apart according to the Wall Street
Journal. They could not agree on a
price, but Revolution Medicine, the
journal reporting, still might be a
target for another company. But even so,
those shares falling [music] 22% this
morning. To the upside, a different type
of deal. USA Rare Earths reporting from
the FT saying that the US government
would be injecting support, taking an
investment, a 10% [music] stake in this
company, and supplying them with $1.3
billion worth of senior secured
financing, [music] a deal. That deal
could be announced as soon as today.
Shares soaring for this small company,
up 37 and a third% [music] the
pre-market. John,
>> hey Danny, thank you. Thank you very
much. the latest on that move. Massive
move in the pre-market. I've lost count.
What number [music] are we on now?
>> I literally was just thinking which
number of company this is ranked in
terms of US [music] government
intervention. It's literally a half a
dozen and I'm sure there's a list of
others they're going to continue in the
next 3 years.
>> I know that Republicans are somewhat
[music] happy with this effort and I
understand why. We're trying to get some
of these production off the ground in
this country for national security
reasons. [music]
I'm right there. I understand why. But
caution this. You have to think about
the kind of [music] policy behavior that
we're normalizing here in this country.
And if you're happy with this kind of
action because you yourself supports the
White House and the Republican party,
[music]
okay, but how unhappy are you going to
be when you see a different flavor if
the other party [music] gets into power
in a few years time?
>> I've said this to Republicans when they
give me the whole this is about [music]
national security, which I understand.
China has an absolute monopoly on rare
earths and the processing of rare earths
and the United [music] States needs that
for the defense sector on top of the
technology sector without question. But
then you push back and you say, "Well,
what if in 2028 [music]
there is a say president AOC? How would
you feel about this?" And then they get
a little bit nervous and they're like,
"Oh, [music] yeah, we don't want to see
equity stakes." Then it's only they're
only okay with state capitalism. It's
under their party. And [music] if it's
not under their party, they're probably
going to call it something else.
>> What kind of policy behavior are we
normalizing out of the White House? It's
an important question. Let's get back to
our top stories on our radar this
morning. The yen surging as the dollar
extended selloff. The greenback hitting
a fourmonth low on speculation the
United States may help Japan. This
coming after Prime Minister Takahichi
warned that the government is ready to
intervene. Elsewhere, the risk of a US
government shutdown is rising. The
Senate Republican leaders vowing to
reject Democrats demands to split off
funding for the Department of Homeland
Security. The threat following the fatal
shooting of a US citizen by ICE agents
in Minnesota.
>> Absolutely horrific weekend when it
comes to domestic politics in America.
But this is also going to have
repercussions for potentially a
government shutdown. A lot of people
said, "We're not going to have a
government shutdown until this weekend."
And then you have Senate Minority Leader
Chuck Schumer coming out with a
statement vowing that he is not going to
vote and he's going to make sure his
caucus doesn't vote for the very long
appropriations bill because it includes
DHS funding. So that is why the odds of
a partial government shutdown have gone
right up.
>> Should we just sit on developments in
Minnesota because they are so so
important right now? The president won
for many reasons in the last election,
but one of the big reasons was just how
poorly the southern border was handled
by the Biden administration. A lot of
people have commended him for tightening
that up as quickly as he had done. But
it looks like he's losing and losing on
a policy that he won on just a couple of
years ago because of the way this is
playing out in one state.
>> Well, if you look at the polls, he is.
Immigration right now is trending
downwards along with his overall
performance. If you look at what Nate
Silver put out over the weekend, you
could see that just trending lower
because this is not what Americans, when
you look at the polling, thought in
their mind would be closing of the
southern border. They were not expecting
Americans to get shot in the streets
while they were conducting some of these
operations. The president did speak to
the Wall Street Journal last night. We
should note five minute uh interview. He
said, quote, "We're looking, we're
reviewing everything and we will come
out with a determination. The
administration officials have publicly
defended the officer, but the president
is looking likely in this Wall Street
Journal interview that he wants a little
bit more of a thorough investigation.
>> That's the latest on developments here
state side. A winter storm also
dominating the headlines over the past
24 hours, hitting the east coast,
bringing heavy snow. The storm straining
electrical grids and grounding thousands
of flights, more than 1 million homes
and businesses across the United States
are now without power.
>> This is really scary when it comes to
this storm. It's one of the biggest
we've seen. It's once in a decade. It's
pretty surprising actually you and I
made it into the studio this morning. No
snow days for surveillance. When it
comes to the flight cancellations, the
biggest and the most flights we've seen
cancelled since co over the weekend more
than 11,000 and this morning as of 1:30
a.m. 3,500 flights canled and that
number is rising. Everyone needs to stay
safe out there.
>> Stay super super safe. I can tell you
coming into New York, the roads were not
good. Not good at all. Let's turn to
commodities. Gold smashing past 5K for
the first time ever as traders pile into
the debasement trade. Amy Goward, lead
medals commodity strategist at Morgan
Stanley writing, "We don't think prices
have peaked with geopolitical risk,
positive signals from central banks and
ETF buying. We highlight our bullcase
5700 for the second half." Amy joins us
now for more. Amy, good morning. Just to
clarify, is that the second half of this
week or the second half of this year?
>> It's the second half of this year.
>> Amy, let's get into that call. We have
moved so so quickly on the precious
metal. Have we got a new driver here
given developments over the last week?
>> Yeah, look, I think there's there's
multiple drivers working together. So,
of course, we should mention
geopolitical risk and all of the
uncertainty that we have at the moment.
I think that is driving investors
towards precious metals in particular
and especially given prices are then
performing so well. I think that is
providing additional price momentum. uh
we also got a bit of dollar weakness the
last few days and that is always a
tailwind for commodities um making them
cheaper for non-dollar holders and then
I think while we're still in this you
when will the Fed cut rather than if the
Fed will cut that's also a broader
tailwind but the key thing I think also
has changed that's worth flagging is
around central bank behavior so we've
always thought of central banks thinking
about gold as a percentage share of
their reserves and of course that means
as as gold prices rise you would think
that they would slow the pace of buying
because the price is kind of doing the
work for them. But we had something
really interesting from the Central Bank
of Poland um about a week ago saying
they're now targeting 700 tons of gold.
So an absolute tonnage amount of gold um
which would imply about 150 tons of
buying. So for context, Poland was the
largest buyer already last year. This
would be about another 50% buying on
top. So if central banks are just
thinking about having gold regardless of
the price, then that could also keep
that kind of structural buying at a
higher level than we were previously
expecting. Amy, I understand countries
like Russia and China that face
sanctions threats wanting to make sure
that they have this to historical level
of gold buying. Why a central bank like
Poland?
>> I think it's part of sort of where do
you put your reserves? and and we've
seen um you've you've got the the dollar
sort of seeing a a slightly declining um
share across across the world, but it's
not really clear what the the other
currencies are that can really compete
against the dollar. So, I think when
when it comes to central banks looking
at their options, gold is there. It's
sort of a something that should hold its
value over time, which I guess for a
central bank, their key role is to sort
of protect the the value of their
reserves. So if you are worried about
currencies in general losing value, gold
is is your sort of your natural um your
natural hedge there. And then I think
Poland did site specifically all of this
geopolitical uncertainty as well. But
we'd also highlight say we saw Brazil
for example coming in in September for
the first time in about four years. So
it's pretty widespread now this this
buying. There seems to be so many
reasons why gold is just smashing it
this morning. Can you give us what you
think potentially is the number one
driver?
>> Uh yeah, look, I think the the price
momentum is is very important here. And
I think given all of this geopolitical
uncertainty, I'd say probably that is
the number one driver in terms of the
last week of of price action. But I do
think all of these other factors have
have set the scene for us to be here.
>> Well, Amy, speaking of momentum, let's
talk about a different precious metal.
Let's talk about silver. got a 5% move
on my screen on the Bloomberg terminal
so far this morning. Can you just give
us an idea of how big that market is and
how easy it is to push around on any
given day?
>> Yeah. So, so silver is is much much
smaller than gold in terms of its kind
of global traded volume in terms of the
the the market size um on the screen and
and what you can move um financially. um
it is a bigger market in terms of
absolute tonnage terms just because it's
it's a lower value um in terms of sort
of annual production. Um but I think for
what we're seeing on silver is it's
slightly different to gold in that it's
it's partly an industrial metal and
partly a precious metal and so you do
have real users who need to buy silver.
Arguably nobody needs to buy gold on any
given day but if you have a factory that
is dependent on silver to make solar
panels or electronics so there's a buyer
out there that physically needs this
metal. And so that has been a big driver
over the last four or five years pushing
that silver market tighter and tighter
into deficits. And then you've also got
this precious metals angle of safe haven
buying. And we're seeing that really
accelerated last year and continues to
this year. So when these two come
together when when money flows into a
silver ETF, they need to find some
physical metal to underpin that. Um but
that's largely been eaten up already by
all of this industrial demand we've had.
So that metal is just not there. And
we're seeing this particularly in China
at the moment. So China is trading at
about a 15% premium even to what we're
seeing in London and in New York. Um and
that's that's physical demand where that
the metal is just not available. If we
go to London vaults, there is silver in
there, but it's all kind of owned by
these ETFs. It's not really freely
available to the market and I think
that's why we're getting this squeeze.
>> Amy, this was really well framed.
Appreciate the clinic. Amy Gav there of
Morgan Stanley. So you've got the
industrial metals trade, see it in
copper. the precious metals trade. You
see it in gold. Then you've got the best
of both worlds right now, which is
silver up another 5%.
>> Silver $109 an ounce today means its
price is more than three times higher
than it was a year ago. That is an
absolutely stunning statistic when it
comes to this precious metal.
>> Some major moves in precious metals
again this morning. Let's get you an
update on news worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Vonnie Quinn for more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey Tom. Thank you. New York Mayor Zuran
Mandani vowing to use quote every option
to prevent an aggressive ICE operation
in New York City. The mayor also
defending the city sanctuary city
policies which allow cities to [music]
limit their cooperation with federal
agencies looking to deport undocumented
immigrants.
China's top general is being accused of
passing secret information about the
country's nuclear weapons program to the
United States. The Wall Street Journal
reporting Jang Zhu Xia is also [music]
accused of accepting bribes for official
acts, including promoting an officer to
the post of defense minister. The report
goes beyond China's announcement on
Saturday that it was investigating Jang.
And Chinese officials are telling the
country's largest tech firms to start
preparing orders [music] for Nvidia's
H200 chips. Sources saying Alibaba,
Tencent, and Bite Dance have initial
approval for purchases. Alibaba and Bans
earlier told Nvidia in private that they
are interested in ordering more than
200,000 units each [music] of the H200.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John
Bonnie, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next on the program, reshaping the
Federal Reserve.
>> I know within three or four people who
all going to pick.
>> I have a a pretty good idea who I want.
>> I'll announce him at the right time.
There's plenty of time.
>> I have somebody that I think will be
very good, but I'm not going to reveal
it. That conversation up next with
Michael Dada of Roth [music] Capital.
[music]
Stocks are down across the board. We're
negative by 0.2% on the S&P 500. On the
NASDAQ 100, we're down by about a third.
And Sylvanas this morning reshaping the
Federal Reserve.
I know within three or four people who
all going to pick.
>> I know who I'm going to pick.
>> I guess a potential Fed chair is here,
too. I don't know who's allowed to say.
>> We're going to be looking at a couple of
different people, but I have a a pretty
good idea who I want. Someone who
believes in lower [music] interest rates
by a lot.
>> I'll announce him at the right time.
There's plenty of time.
>> I'll be telling you soon. Now, I have
somebody that I think will be very good,
but I'm not going to reveal it.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. A
key week ahead for the Federal Reserve.
President Trump set to announce his pick
for the central bank's next chair as
policy makers gear up for the first rate
decision of 2026. Michael Dada of Roth
Capital writing the incoming chair of
the Fed will then inherit an
increasingly divided and defiant FOMC.
Michael joins us now for more. Mike,
welcome to the show. It's good to see
you. Let's talk about why you believe
this Fed will be such an unruly Federal
Reserve for the next Fed chair.
>> Thanks for having me on, John. Well,
look, I think Trump is kind of
overplaying his hand here. We're seeing
pretty significant push back uh with
this Justice Department investigation on
Fed Chair Powell, which is obviously a
political ploy to put a lot of pressure
on the next chair of the Federal
Reserve. Uh but Senator,
I
>> think we got a problem with that
connection with Michael D of Roth
Capital. Is he out in a chalet somewhere
skiing?
>> We're going to try and reestablish that.
Look, the noise on the Federal Reserve
and hopefully we can reconnect with Mike
and we'll continue the conversation.
We've talked about this a few times. The
perception and perception is important.
The members of the committee right now
and we've seen that evidently from the
chairman of the Federal Reserve, Jay Pal
himself, perceive there to be a threat
from the White House that is a threat to
their independence. And we've talked
about that galvanizing the other
officials on the Federal Reserve, which
makes it difficult for whoever comes in
to lead the committee and get everyone
else to follow them. It's going to be
very hard for the next Fed chair. It
potentially can be very hard to gain
that consensus unless maybe it's someone
from within like Governor Waller, but
his name hasn't been thrown out as much
as some of the others. Jonathan,
>> I understand we've reconnected with Mike
Der of Roth Capital. So Mike, we can
continue the conversation. Let's go with
it. Okay, I understand why this Fed
could be a more unruly Federal Reserve.
Does the market price the volatility
within the Federal Reserve or does the
market price the outcome of that
volatility which means it's difficult to
reduce interest rates?
Yeah, I mean look, the market still
gives the Fed a lot of credibility and
is not looking for a huge political
disruption. So, you know, I think we're
playing with fire here going down this
path uh with a lot of political pressure
on the Federal Reserve. So, we'll see
what happens. I mean, at least there's
some push back. Um Senator Tillis has
basically defended Paul saying forget
any new appointees to the FOMC until
this is resolved. Um, and you know, you
have a divided Fed, and this is a
Federal Reserve that makes decisions
based on a consensus. So, you don't just
pick one member to lead the Fed and then
assume that rates are going to go to one
because, you know, you assume that's a
good idea. So, you know, we'll see how
all of this plays out, but I think the
administration's really overplayed their
hand here.
>> I'm glad you mentioned Senator Tom
Tillis. spoke with Jonathan Lisa and
myself in Davos and he talked about the
fact that he is not going to let a
candidate go through until this is
resolved in terms of the DOJ probe on
Jay Powell or the more than 340 days he
has left until his retirement. Do you
think the market is pricing in the fact
that we can have Jay Powell be the Fed
chair for I don't know another 300 days?
>> Well, I mean look his board seat doesn't
expire until 2028. So if Fed Chair Paul
was really worried about political
influence on the Fed, uh he could stay
on as a voter and deny the
[clears throat] administration that
board seat. So, you know, they would
have to use the expiring term of
Governor Marin for the next Fed chair.
And then, as I said in the quote, you've
got a pretty divided and defiant FOMC.
Uh so that's just kind of a mess. Um,
but it also prevents, you know, dramatic
political manipulation of the Fed and
pushing the Fed down a path where it's
doing things it shouldn't be doing. You
know, running it hot might sound very
good in the short term, but let's not
forget how the 10-year went from 50
basis points to 5%.
That occurred on the back of an
inflationary policy here by the Federal
Reserve. So, I don't think we want to
repeat that exercise again.
>> Mike, do you believe there is upside
inflation risk this year? And what's the
source of that?
>> No, not really. I mean I think that the
foul pet pow fed has done a phenomenal
job here uh in terms of the previous
tightening and then easing by just about
the right amount. The nominal economy
has been super steady. Inflation
expectations are anchored. So I think
that they've presided over just almost a
perfect immaculate disinflation and I
think that continues this year but we're
playing with fire in terms of what the
administration is doing and they should
really reverse course in my opinion.
Mike, it's [clears throat] good to see
you. My apologies about the technical
disruption. Mike D there of Roth Capital
on the Federal Reserve. This from Torson
of Apollo in the past few weeks covered
it on the program. I think worth
repeating the risk of overheating here.
The list of tower winds keeps growing.
We're starting to worry about
overheating in 26 to Apollo just a few
weeks back
>> and he had so many reasons on that list
including the AI trade, the buildout of
those data centers. On top of that, we
are in 2026. This is the year the United
States will be hosting the World Cup.
The tourism that's going to be coming
in, the money that is going to be spent
on that. He had so many reasons why
potentially we could be overheating this
year. And you have to think potentially
is that a concern for inflation.
>> I was so excited about the World Cup
coming to this country this year. Just
for right time, right place,
>> ticket prices,
>> return of Americana, great moment for
the sport in this country as well.
>> The scenes we've seen play out,
>> the headlines we've witnessed in the
past week or so out of just one state. I
just wonder how much perception is being
shaped by that abroad and how few people
decide to actually come over and watch
the games. Now, I hope in six months
time we're all wrong about this. I hope
the stadiums are full. I'll be one of
the happier people sitting around this
table to see that play out. I hope
that's the case.
>> I hope so, too. I mean, right now when
you have the State Department talking
about visa bans for a number of
countries, especially a country like
Brazil, but saying, "Oh, but it won't
affect the World Cup." But if you're an
individual, are you looking at what's
playing out in America and thinking, I
feel safe to go there right now from
[music] these countries? No.
>> Futures right now negative by close to
210 of 1% on the S&P. Up next, we'll
catch up with Sarah Hunt of Ampire Sax
and Words, Terry Haynes of Pangia
Policy, Steven Shaw of the Shaw Group,
and Bob [music] Michael of JP Morgan
asset management. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
>> [music]
>> The US economy is really growing fast.
>> The US has been really an incredibly
strongly performing market. Strong
economy. Corporate health is excellent.
Consumer health at the top end is
excellent.
>> Diversifying away from America is
impossible. So if you look at the
economy today, there's a lot of good
short-term things.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
[music] and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance [music] starts
right now. And your scores look like
this. Equity futures a touch softer.
We're down [music] by about a tenth of
1% on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ, we're
down by two. The Russell down by almost
a third. The big move in gold. Gold up
last week by almost 9%. Up this morning
by two, up on the year by close to 18.
Gold through 5K for the first time ever.
Lots of reasons for that. We'll get into
it in just a moment. Going into this
massive week ahead. Lots of earnings.
We'll get that Wednesday and Thursday
from big tech, Microsoft, Meta, [music]
Apple. A Fed rate decision coming up on
Wednesday and an address from the
President of the United States [music]
tomorrow. There's a ton and potentially
a government shutdown, Jonathan, by the
end of the week, given what we heard
from Senator Schumer over the weekend.
When it comes to the Federal Reserve,
there's no urgency either way. [music]
That's made obvious by Fed officials.
What is going to be interesting though
is a lot of developments have happened
since we last heard from Jay Powell. And
the Q&A at the press conference [music]
is going to be very insightful. One, do
you think it was political that you
showed up to Lisa Cook's hearing at the
Supreme Court? [music] Two, what can you
tell us about the DOJ probe? Three, do
you plan to stay on past your
chairmanship to stay on his
governorship? And I don't know if the
chairman is going to offer any insight
into how he's thinking about a number of
these issues that are political, not
monetary policy focus.
>> Base case would be he won't engage.
[music] I would say I've lost some
conviction around that base case given
how assertive he was just a few weeks
back. That [music] was a different
chairman pal. And I wonder how willing
he is to address some of those questions
in the news conference this Wednesday.
Yeah, he might come out a little bit
more forthright in [music] how he's
thinking, especially since the fact that
he has showed up to Lisa Cook's hearing.
And you heard from the Treasury
Secretary saying that is a J. Pal that
is politicizing [music] the situation.
He might talk about whether or not he's
had phone conversations with members on
the Hill like Senator Tom Tillis [music]
who says that he is not going to
entertain the administration's next
candidate until what is going on with
the DOJ
is basically [music]
figured out between Jay Powell. It's
going to be an interesting next few
weeks.
>> It's interesting looking at the the
market betting, [music] the probability,
all those things out there at the moment
who are now got Rick Reer in the lead
because they think that the other
individuals are a little bit too close
to the White House and this is the guy
that can probably make it. Speaking to
the senator just last week, he said it's
not about the man, it's about the
process. And I just wondered to what
extent here on Wall Street, we're still
underestimating [music] just how long
this could go on for. Well, Senator
Tillis was uh pretty factual in the
sense that he [music] said how the
process works. Nothing can go through
the Senate Banking Committee without his
sign off or until he retires. [music]
That's more than 340 days because he is
retiring. And it was interesting. He
said, "Doesn't matter about who it is.
It's [music] a process. Until this DOJ
is wrapped up in this investigation to
Jay Powell, I'm not going to move it
forward." What's going on Rick Reer
though is [music] inside and outside the
White House, you are seeing a lot of an
embrace and warm tones about this
individual. I definitely heard it at
Davos.
>> See the things we do, the lengths we go
to to get to the studio to talk about
the Federal Reserve here at Bloomberg
Surveillance. Getting through that
winter storm just to talk about the
Federal Reserve. Let's talk about this
storm here on Wall Street. We're
starting to put some numbers on it. This
came from Bank [music] of America and
Adich Bar. The impact of fern may drag
down Q1 GDP by 0.5 to 1.5% [music]
quarter on quarter.
>> It's no surprise when you find out that
this is the most flight cancellation
since CO when the world literally
stopped [music] and there was bans on
flights. Individuals cannot get to the
airport. If you can get to the airport,
it's too icy and the conditions are not
safe for [music] flights to take off.
So, we saw more than 11,000 flight
cancellations over this weekend. And the
number is going up this morning as of
1:30 a.m. 3,500 flights were cancelled.
[music] And if you're an individual that
potentially works in the city besides
us, I think you're working from home.
>> It's pretty quiet. Let's put it that way
in Manhattan, but it's always pretty
quiet around 4:00 a.m. anyway, but I
imagine it's going to be pretty quiet
throughout the day ahead. We'll keep
track of developments for you through
the app right here on Bloomberg TV.
Coming up this hour, we'll also catch up
with Sarah Hun of Alpine Sax and Woods
as equities look to bounce back. Steven
Shaw of the Shaw Group as US natural gas
prices sore and Bob Michael of JP Morgan
asset management seeing no evidence of a
South America trade. We begin this hour
with stocks treading water as key
earnings loom. Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax
and Woods writing the following.
Earnings have been coming in fairly well
so far, but are obscured by some
potential policy changes. Sarah joins us
now for more. Sarah, typically when
things get crazy, you don't even bother
trying to price it. And over the last
week, things got pretty crazy. When you
talk about potential policy changes,
policy from where and who?
>> Well, if you just look at some of the
the edicts that have come out, if you
look at things like let's go 10% on
credit cards or the whole Greenland
thing that was happening that was so
fast that went from this is going to be
a big problem to no this is not going to
be a big problem. I think that those are
the kind of things that get markets
attention, especially if you start
looking at the credit card regulations
and those interest rates because the
banking sector has had some strong
earnings coming in that all of a sudden
throws some potential cold water on what
could happen there on the earnings
front. So I think the concern would be
that while you have a reasonably good
earnings picture, which we think we do
right now, that anything that looks like
it's going to threaten that earnings
picture is going to be problematic
because that is what is going to drive
equity prices, especially from the highs
that we're sitting at right Sarah, to
that point, the backdrop for earnings is
pretty decent. The back backdrop for
growth is even better for the year ahead
in this country. Is there something
about the policy posture in Washington
right now that makes that sector less
investable?
>> I think it's it's more just the frenetic
changes in deal the ideas of what's
going to happen next and how that's
going to happen and what can be
regulated and what can't be regulated.
And the truth of the matter is there's a
lot of things that would need to go
through a much bigger policy question
than just a sort of edict from above.
But I think that the concern is just
that you get these big idea changes and
you're not ready to look at how that's
going to impact earnings and then you
swip switch to another one so quickly
that it becomes this sort of rolling
information cascade. And I think that
that's kind of been can be an issue for
markets although many times they turn
around and ignore them. So, it's also
it's it's difficult to figure out which
things are going to gain traction and
which things are not.
>> Every day it seems like the market is
dealing with another question mark now,
a potential government shutdown. What
does that mean potentially for the next
and non-farm payrolls report? Will we
actually get data? Sarah, when you look
at all of this and you're looking at all
these questions, where do you want to
hide?
I don't think it's so much about hiding
as it is trying to figure out and stick
with sectors that you think are going to
do well in the long term. almost I you
can never say irregardless of what's
going on outside, right? But you want to
look at the things where you still see
that growth in the AI buildout that is
happening. There's a lot of ancillary
things that go along with that. We know
that we're going to need more power. We
can see that higher power prices are
driving what is going to be a larger
demand for power. You can see that there
are places where there's going to be
growth. There's been a lot of activity
in the biotech sector. There's been a
lot of activity in some of those
healthcare sectors where there's been
some M&A activity. I think that what you
want to do is look forward to what's
going to happen over the next three to
five years because the noise can get
very loud in the short term, but you're
looking for longer term. You're looking
for companies with really good balance
sheets, really good cash flow. We want
to see that those fundamentals on the
balance sheet. They really do matter.
And I think that especially with where
we are right now in levels on the
indices, you really want to be careful
of your fundamentals.
>> When you look at the AI trade,
Jonathan's been very good about bringing
this up because a lot of guests have
spoken to us about this. How important
is open AI as a litmus test for AI this
year?
>> I think that's a big question and I
think that there's some real questions
about what's going on with the financing
there and I think that that's one of
those things that is going to be either
a it either is going to be a bellweather
or it's not. And it's hard to tell early
on because there's so many other things
going on and there are reasons that you
could call that particular issue
something that is only that only matters
to open AI as opposed to mattering to
the entire infrastructure or the entire
sphere. But I don't it's going to see
anything that's really bad that comes
out of that is definitely going to give
investors a scare I would say. So I
think that it's something to definitely
keep an eye on. Sarah, do you think
that's why people are taking more
comfort? And looking at, if I dare say,
an equity haven trade at the moment
seems to be small caps. The
outperformance of small over large so
far this year is notable. We've got the
S&P up by around 1% and small was up by
close to 8% on the Russell 2000, Sarah.
And I just wonder if some of these
themes forces that we're discussing
right now, policy risk out of the White
House, speak to the fact that some
people are just looking elsewhere to
smaller companies that might not be in
the firing line.
I think that there's also been, you
know, that we've been talking about or
investors have been talking about a
catch-up trade in small caps for a long
time. And I think that the concern that
happened with the small caps when they
started to rally a couple of years ago
was really much more concerned about a
US recession and how that was going to
impact small caps. I think that that I
wouldn't say that it's 100% taken off
the table because you can never say
100%. But I would say that the idea that
we were running into a recession is less
of a problem right now. That's
beneficial to small caps. People are
looking for value because they've seen
how much the multiples are higher in the
larger cap spaces. So I think that there
is a combination of things that are
going on there. One, better feelings
about the US economy, better feelings
about what's going to happen in earnings
in general and a valuation gap that has
been fairly substantial. So I think that
people are looking for value in markets.
They always do and this is some place
where they're starting to find it right
now.
>> Well, Sarah, let's pick up on point one.
I think it's the most important point.
the rerating of the outlook for US
growth and it's been rerated quite
dramatically when I look at notes from
torso talking about overheating and I'll
have a similar conversation with Morgan
Stanley a little bit later this morning
Sarah that is a well understood story
now how well priced is that story
inequacies
>> well there's a give and take with that
right because if the economic picture is
that much better then it's sort of poses
the question of why we need to be
cutting rates where the technology
sector is still looking well the market
is still looking for a couple of rate
cuts this year. I think that there's
going to be some tension there because
yes, I actually do see that the economic
picture looks pretty good and so that
makes that begs the question of why we
need to cut rates which is gets into the
whole problem that the White House is
having with the Federal Reserve. So
there's a lot of different tensions
there but I do think that the US looks
pretty good relative especially to the
rest of the world but also just relative
in general to the last couple of years.
You have some things that have gotten a
little bit out of the way and you do see
some reasonable employment. you see some
good numbers on the economic front and I
think that that's just going to help
equities in the US perform better.
>> Sarah, you don't sound like someone
who's part of the sell America trade. Is
that accurate?
>> Yes, that's accurate. [laughter]
>> So, you're saying sticking with the
United States, especially when it comes
to the economic backdrop. When it comes
to your last point just about the
Federal Reserve, basically do you now
when you look at some of these economic
proje projections, do you now basically
map in no rate cuts from this Fed?
Well, I think that the expectation on
rate cuts and the reality of rate cuts
has not really matched up very well in
the last couple of years because if you
start out every year, I mean, we're not
starting out this year this way, but if
you started out every year in the last
couple of years expecting some major
number of rate cuts, and we haven't
actually gotten them because the
economic data has been pretty decent.
And I think that that's I think that's
going to be what's h the big story of
2026 on top of another couple of things.
If we don't see inflation, you can say,
okay, if you needed to get some rate
relief, you could have it. But if you
see very heavy, very strong growth, it's
going to be harder to justify that. And
I don't see how all of this noise around
the Fed helps that in any way, shape, or
form because no matter what happens,
it's going to be discussed as
politicized. But I think in the end, the
US economy is doing pretty well. And
it's hard to see how that is majorly
impacted in the near term in the same
way that you've got some of the issues
with other kinds of slow slowdowns in
Europe and other places. So I think that
the US is looking pretty good right now.
And I think that the consumer is looking
and acting pretty good right now. So,
we'll see how that plays out as we get
through the year. And we do have to be
concerned about inflation popping back
up because power prices are higher. And
even though you don't have as many
inflation drivers as you had before,
there are still some in the system. So,
I think that that's another reason where
cutting rates might be a little bit
difficult to justify.
>> We'll discuss those power prices later
this hour with Steven Shaw. Looking
forward to that. Sarah, good to see you.
Sarah Hunt there of Alpine Sax and
Woods. If you're just joining us,
welcome to the program. Futures were
negative by a few ten of 1% on the S&P.
Now just about unchanged, almost
completely flat on the S&P 500. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning. Here is your Bloomberg
brief. The US East Coast trying to get
back to normal after yesterday's massive
snowstorm. [music] The storm causing the
most flight cancellation since the CO 19
pandemic. According to flightware, more
than 3600 flights were cancelled [music]
as of this morning. Elsewhere, OPEC plus
sticking with the supply. delegates
telling us here at Bloomberg the group
is currently expected to maintain all
production levels when they meet on
Sunday. There are no signs it needs to
adjust supply due to events [music] in
Venezuela and Iran. And finally, BYD
aiming to increase overseas deliveries
by nearly 25% this year, [music]
targeting 1.3 million sales outside of
China. Strong demand abroad helping BYD
overtake Tesla in 2025 to become the
world's largest [music] EV maker. How
many of those cars will be sold in
Canada alone over the next few years?
>> That's what I was thinking obviously
because this is at the crux really of
this [music] concern between Ottawa and
Washington right now and we've seen what
BYYD has been doing [music] to Europe
going in there massive investment and
it's as you say it's overtaking Tesla.
>> Conor Secretary didn't hold back last
week in Davos Switzland. It's going to
complicate negotiations over USMCA later
this year. USMCA. Those negotiations are
going [music] to be incredibly
challenging, especially when the
president of the United States is now
calling the prime minister of Canada,
Governor Carney, like he did with Justin
Trudeau.
>> It didn't help last time, did it?
>> Nope.
>> See if it helps this time. Up next on
the program, tensions rising across the
aisle.
>> Maybe go to another city and let the
people of Minneapolis decide.
>> We don't stop this in its [music]
tracks. People being killed simply for
exercising their First Amendment rights
is going to be a regular feature in this
country. That should unite Republicans
and Democrats in Congress.
>> That conversation up next with Terry
Haynes of Pangia Policy live from New
York City this morning. [music]
Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Two days away from a Federal Reserve
decision here state side. Equities into
that just about unchanged on the S&P 500
slightly lower through a very very
volatile trading week last week. The
NASDAQ 100 down by a tenth of 1%. The
Russell down by.1% also under
surveillance this morning. Tensions
rising across the aisle.
If the mayor and the governor are going
to put our ICE officials in harm's way
and and there's a chance of losing more
uh you know innocent lives or whatever
then then maybe go to another city and
let the people of Minneapolis decide
>> we don't stop this [music] in its tracks
what you were seeing in Minnesota people
being killed simply for exercising their
first amendment rights [music] is going
to be a regular feature in this country
that should unite Republicans and
Democrats in Congress.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Senate Democrats vowing to oppose a
government spending bill unless funding
for the Department of Homeland
[clears throat] Security is split off.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for more. Good morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, a senior
aid to Democratic leadership tells me
that Senate Minority Leader Chuck
Schumer says that he has the votes to
potentially block this spending package,
which could risk a partial government
shutdown this Friday, which is the
deadline for the full appropriations
process to ultimately play out. If we
look at the math here, Republicans need
seven Democrats to get on board with the
spending package as it stands. And we've
already started to see some of those
Democrats that supported Republicans
last time around start to peel off when
it comes to their support. If we take a
step back, the Senate is right now
considering six spending bills that
would fund the government for the rest
of the fiscal year. One of those in part
funds the Department of Homeland
Security, and Democrats now want to see
some of that funding stripped out. The
issue with that though is that any
changes to the broader spending package
would have to get kicked back down to
the House and the crowd of Washington
until February 2nd, which means that
they would have to come back in early.
And we're already starting to see some
issues and delays on Capitol Hill
related to the weather. There are also
big questions here about whether or not
this could reverse some key and
hard-fought wins for Democrats in the
spending package as it stands. They were
able to reverse some of the Trump
administration's spending cuts to
foreign aid, for example. Plus, we have
to keep in mind Immigration and Customs
Enforcement received a whole lot of
funding under the one big beautiful
bill. So, others are raising concerns
that this is actually going to impact
other agencies under DHS and not ICE
such as FEMA as just one uh key example
here. So, there's going to be a lot of
negotiation as this goes forward and
we'll have to see what ends up
happening. John, it is our understanding
that Senate Republicans have reached out
to to Democrats as we're starting to see
some growing unease among the GOP when
it does come to President Trump's
immigration crackdown, but they're
really more calling for investigations
to happen rather uh rather than uh
impacting any of the funding that's
currently under consideration on Capitol
Hill.
>> Tyler Kendall down in Washington. Tyler,
thank you. To build on some of that,
Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy joins us
now for more. Terry, going to kick it
off by asking for a projection, a
forecast, the call. Where are we going
to be by the time we get to midterms at
year end?
>> Uh by the time we get to midterms, I
think uh this is the this will be an
aspect an important aspect of uh things.
I think what you end up with today is I
think you end up with a continued
Republican Senate. The map is just not
very good for Democrats. And also I
think anybody that tells you as I've
heard on your air in the past that you
know the Democrats are projected to pick
up this many seats or that many seats I
think is way way over their skis. You
have a situation where there's about 10%
of the seats uh that are open right now.
Uh we don't even know who the
challengers are in a lot of those seats.
Uh and yet people are already projecting
Democratic gains or Republican holds. I
think what you got is a situation here
at the bottom line is where you have a
very small Republican majority in the
Senate and whether or not there is a
Democratic majority. Uh it's going to be
tiny and a lot of that depends a lot of
a Democrat's uh pitch depends on how
electable their candidates are. Uh if
they end up with a lot of Jasmine
Crockett like candidates in the House uh
you know their odds go down
substantially. Terry, there was a
shocking incident when it comes to the
deadly shooting in Minnesota this
weekend. How do you see Congress pushing
back against some of the rhetoric we saw
in the White House over the next 24
hours or even the next week?
>> Well, I got to say two things. Uh one
both institutional one uh uh one uh
directly on Congress. Uh look, nobody
the John Kennedy used to joke, President
Kennedy used to joke that uh his
Pulitzer Prizewinning uh book uh
profiles and courage uh was a very short
book uh for a reason. Uh and that book
was about uh congressional bravery. Um
what you got here is, you know, Congress
is lazy. Uh and that may sound uh
uncharitable to people who are running
around like crazy uh dealing with their
constituencies and their jobs, but
Congress is not doing any of the
oversight that it needs to do on ICE or
you know 100 other things frankly uh to
make sure that these things run
smoothly. Congress has got a huge role
here. Uh it has not exercised it at all.
uh Republicans or Democrats. Uh
Democrats could uh could have months ago
been agitating for uh uh for hearings,
changes, whatnot. Uh and now we are
where we always are, which is nobody's
done their jobs on oversight. Uh so now
we're going to have uh hair on fire,
last minute uh spending battles. Uh
that's irresponsible for the public. The
second thing uh frankly that's
irresponsible for the public is to have
uh state and local government officials
uh talk as if they're equal partners or
that they can stop things that go on in
the federal government. Uh you know, not
to put too fine a point on it. Uh we had
wars over this. Uh this is a federal
government policy, good or ill. Uh and
what they need to be doing is working a
whole lot more constructively than they
have been too. Uh, you know, there's an
awful lot of people here who are
contributing to this bad situation and
they all need to have a little more
humility and stop. Frankly,
>> Terry, you talked about Congress, you
talked about state and local officials.
You haven't mentioned the White House,
which some officials in the White House
are calling the individual, the American
that was shot a terrorist.
What What's your assessment of how they
are handling this situation right now?
>> Well, I mean, the short answer is badly.
Uh I started with Congress and the
institutions cuz you ask me about them.
Uh but uh you know they are uh you know
they're doubling down on things that
need a lot more uh a lot more subtlety
and a lot more tact and uh you know I
think when the when the White House has
lost the Wall Street Journal editorial
page u I think it ought to sit up and
take some notice and uh and understand
that they need to be doing things
substantially differently. uh whether it
be retraining, whether it be uh whe
whether it be just adopting a different
posture anywhere that uh anywhere that
they're trying to enforce uh immigration
policy. Uh that message I think is going
to take a little bit of time to get
through. I think the Senate, frankly,
has a big role to play this week in that
because uh it's going to be uh on a
bipartisan level, I should say, going to
be agitating for a lot of changes and
the White House would be wise to get in
dialogue with with those folks and come
up with some consensus.
>> You were right earlier this year calling
for the potential of a government
shutdown. When it comes to how the White
House deals with it, do you think the
president is going to have to have a
shakeup of his cabinet?
Um, you know, I think it's a little bit
too early for that, but uh, at the very
least, uh, Homeland Homeland Security
Secretary Gnome has got some questions
to answer about this. Uh, you know, a
lot of people will applaud uh her uh her
desire to strongly defend uh the ICE
folks wherever what what they're doing
and how they're doing it. Um, at the
same time, I I think uh leadership takes
a little bit of tact. I think it's a
little bit too early to assume that uh
that cabinet secretaries may topple. Uh
but there's a lot of people known among
them, I think, uh who are being looked
at a whole lot wearier by others in the
White House than they were a week ago.
>> Those questions certainly being asked
this morning. Terry, it's good to see
you. Thank you, sir. Terry Haynes of
[music] Pangia Policy. Up next on the
program, Steven Shaw of the Shaw Group
with natural gas prices surging. Plus,
Danny with your morning movers. Mining
stocks rally as gold hits [music]
all-time highs.
[music]
Had to double check this. The first
back-to-back weekly loss on the S&P 500
going back to June of last year. [music]
Just a small one last week, but still a
weekly loss down by about a third of 1%.
This morning we're down by a tenth on
[music] the S&P on the NASDAQ down by
0.2. The standout last week was just how
flat the bond yield curve actually ended
the week. Week to week 2's [music] 10
30s not doing much. 10 this morning at
42133 yields down by around a single
basis point. I think you have to think
about the backdrop here. The convulsion
we saw in the Japanese debt market and
yet tens in America are still around
420. Let's turn to the big moves that
we've seen develop in the last week or
so. In fact, the last several years.
Gold explosive move higher up by 2%
through 5K. Silver up by 7%. Amy G of
Morgan Stanley on the program in the
last hour. Absolutely fantastic [music]
pointing out that you've got the
industrials trade in copper, the
precious metal story in gold and the
best of both worlds in silver.
>> And also she was pointing out that when
it looks at central bank buying, which
has been historical really since
Russia's invasion of Ukraine, [music]
Ukraine, I was struck that it's not just
the Chinese that are doubling down. It's
central banks like Poland that are
wanting to double down on [music] making
sure they have enough gold. And then you
look at what Bank of America put out
over the weekend. Michael Hartnett
talking about 6,000 by spring. If you
were on this desk trying to analyze
what's going on in this space, how do
you even have a price target? I remember
when this moment was the [music] price
target.
>> It's just flying, Amory. Up by more than
8% last week, up by close to 16% year to
date. think
>> last night when I saw the move and I was
tweeting about it. You know what I
thought about?
>> Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent
would have made a ton of money had he
not gone into the administration.
[music]
>> I believe it was one of his core
positions in his fun.
>> Yes, it was his biggest holding in his
fund.
>> Yeah, we should ask him about that one.
>> Yeah, next time he comes on.
>> Get [music] his thoughts. It's working
now, that's for sure. As we count you
down to the opening bell about two hours
away, let's get you some single names,
some morning movers. Here's Danny with
more. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. Here's the equity market
consequence of that. New pneumont
barrack mining, both of them surging
this morning, up 4.5% for Newmont, 3.7%
for Bareric Mining. Both them closer to
record Friday. So, they are well on
their way to hit another record today.
[music]
Elsewhere, there is a Reuters report
that Nvidia has chosen Samsung
Electronics to provide its latest
digital memory chips. Uh, Micron is one
of the biggest competitors to Samsung
Electronics. So, the fact that it didn't
get the nod [music] means that those
shares are down 1.2%. It's also had a
rip roaring rally, so it is sensitive to
those drops. [music] Finally, ending
things with Baker Hughes, the oil, gas,
and services company reporting earnings
that beat. It was expected to be a very
sluggish environment because less
[music] spending on oil and gas. Even
so, they had a record 2025, a positive
outlook. There are questions around
Venezuela and whether they will be
participating in that rebuild. And as
bait should have it, Matt and I will be
speaking to the CEO around 10:30 a.m.
this morning. So, we will ask him those
[music] questions. John,
>> Danny, with the update, Danny, looking
forward to that. Thanks for joining us.
On our radar this morning, Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson saying Canada
will face 100% tariffs [music] if it
makes a trade deal with China.
>> The Canadians a few months ago joined
the US in putting high steel tariffs on
China because the Chinese are dumping.
The Europeans also have done the same
thing. And it looks like that Prime
Minister Carney may have done some kind
of about face.
>> The Canadian foreign minister saying the
nation won't be derailed in its efforts
to diversify trade away from the United
States.
>> I think that's an important coming out
from Canada. They're not looking for a
free trade agreement with Canada. But it
was peculiar that before he made really
that prerogative speech in Davos, you
had Mark Carney actually go to Beijing
and talk about strategic new
partnerships. That speech I think was
the standout speech of Davos this year.
And what I found also interesting on the
final panel of the week, Christine
Lagarde was asked about and she said she
disagreed.
>> She disagreed. She says, "I don't quite
a agree with Mark, as you know, they're
on a firstname basis, the prime minister
of Canada. She doesn't see this being a
rupture."
>> Isn't it refreshing that the virtue
signaling of Davos is out and the mask
is starting to come off and people are
just speaking their mind and disagreeing
freely just a little bit more? Anyway,
>> so you were there last year. I was at
the inauguration, but the prior year
when I was there, there was a ton of
virtual virtue signaling and I got the
sense in 2024. Everyone was just so
scared of the US upcoming election. This
year, it felt like everyone was willing
to say what they wanted to. And I think
that was pushed by the president of
United States because of his attacks on
Greenland, which really, I think,
galvanized the Europeans to fight back.
>> Let's see if we see more of that in the
year ahead. Elsewhere, we've talked
about this move in the stock market this
morning. The White House planning to
invest 1.6 6 billion into USA Rare
Earth. The Trump administration will
take a 10% stake in the mining company.
The announcement could come as early as
today. That stock is higher in the
pre-market by 15%. Elsewhere, big tech
earnings kicking off on Wednesday. Three
of the Mac 7, Meta, Microsoft, Tesla,
all reporting after the market close.
Apple set to report after the bell this
coming Thursday.
>> So, it's going to be about Apple is
actually the earnings call. What does
Tim Cook say? First off, I saw him in
Davos. He clearly had a lot of
interactions with the administration.
Then this there was this report that
there was almost this private viewing of
the new Melania movie about the first
lady and the NY CEO Lynn Martin who we
spoke to Davis Davos was there and also
Tim Cook was there and it comes at a
time when corporate America at least the
ones that are based in Minnesota like
Target, Best Buy, Land of Lakes,
Cargill, General Mills are pushing back
on this administration and they want
some clarity and they want peace in this
state given what has been going on with
uh with ICE and border Well, we call Tim
Cook the diplomat in the president's
first term. He played the politics
really well this time around relative to
say a Jensen Wang seems to be on the
outside looking in. Is that what the
developments of the last few days are
about for him?
>> No, I think Tim Cook has once again
really reasserted himself as potentially
the key diplomat. Now, I don't know if
he's running policy the same way you'd
think Jensen Wong is because everything
Jensen Wong has wanted for Nvidia in the
AI space is happening in this
administration. But Tim Cook very close
to the sun right now.
>> Apple right now in the free market
higher by around 1%. Let's turn to the
weather. What a storm over the weekend.
A powerful winter storm blanketing much
of the US East Coast with heavy snow and
sleet yesterday. New York, New Jersey,
and Connecticut are all under states of
emergency with their governors warning
people to stay home if possible. New
York City Central Park seeing 10 inches
of snow. For the latest, Bloomberg's
Mars Miller is there and he joins us now
for more. Good morning, Mars. What have
you got?
Hey, good morning to you. Yeah, and you
can tell that nearly a foot of snow fell
here because if you walk around Central
Park, you see people out here with the
dogs and all of that. I mean, it is
really tough getting around. Yeah. The
city seeing in some parts over 12 in
over a foot of of snow that fell
yesterday. And it's not just the snow
that's of concern. It's the Arctic chill
after. Right. We are expecting to have a
week below freezing, which means that
all the snow that fell before it gets
off the ground by melting or uh by
pushing it away. It's going to be really
tough getting around. That is what
played into the decision to close
schools today. Obviously, a lot of New
York City businesses closed as well. And
as you make your way through the
streets, you can really tell just how
slick it is. And you know, every bit of
this snow, of course, is going to stay
freezing where it frozen where it is. Of
course, the mayor uh yesterday uh taking
pain to talk about the New Yorkers uh
who died as a result of these cold
temperatures. One of those New Yorkers
homeless in Queens uh dying in a local
park. I mean, these conditions are such
that they had to stop New Jersey Transit
and it is not even back up and running
this morning. So, a lot of these people
who are commuting to Wall Street, Wall
Street North, of course, having issues
this morning. most of them probably
going to be working remotely. The big
challenge is going to be what to do with
all of this snow. Uh and what you
usually see in New York is that they get
these snow melters, dump all that snow
in, and then it becomes water and goes
straight into the drains. But, uh it's
going to take quite some time. Uh in
parts of this city, as I said, you saw
12 in, you saw 13 in of snow, and
there's really not much to do besides
just play it, take your dog out in it,
and have it have some fun. Of course,
the schools here in the city are closed
and for good reason. Buses would not be
able to make it in this snow, but it is
beautiful here in Central Park. I mean,
pictures. Uh, and I've seen some
snowmen. Uh, I did not see a sled. And
so, I I'll leave that to the experts.
Uh, and I'll just stand here and
continue to tell you about the
conditions.
>> Well, it looks like you're enjoying
yourself, Miles. So, thanks for taking a
beat and taking a break from your very
very busy morning. Miles Miller there in
Central Park this morning. You can't go
out and build a snowman though. If the
mayor has decided that classes will
pivot to online instruction. I have a
problem with this cuz I grew up in New
York and you get so excited. You when
you see your school district across the
banner of the TV screen and if you miss
it, you have to sit in front of the TV,
you know, and this is a morning where
you're allowed to watch TV in my house
because you need to know whether or not
school's closed. And school's closed.
That's it. You're outside sledding,
snowman building, shoveling elderly
individuals, a sidewalk to make some
money. Yes.
>> Then you have hot chocolate. All of this
is being ruined by remote learning. I'm
sorry. It had to be said.
>> I almost misheard you. I thought you
said shoving ad individuals, but
shoveling their driveways. Okay.
>> Appreciate the clarification. Let's talk
about the energy system. US natural gas
jumping almost 20%, topping $6 for the
first time in nearly four years. Joining
us now, Steven Shaw of the Shaw Group.
Stephen, welcome to the program. Can you
just sort of frame for us the amount of
pressure that's been put on the energy
infrastructure in this country in the
last 24 hours?
We're at unprecedented levels right now.
And what was really interesting was that
two Fridays ago, the Friday before the
MLK long holiday weekend is just how
complacent the market was. And now the
market is paying for that complacency.
So let's let's frame this out now. So,
two Fridays ago, we had the weather
forecast that we saw extreme heating
demand in Chicago, your largest gas
furnace market, spreading all the way
east up into New England, an area that
was going to cover major production
regions, Appalachia, which accounts for
about onethird of US production of
natural gas. And yet, even with that
known known out there, the market was
completely complacent. On January 16th,
spot gas traded within six ten of a
penny of $3. March gas, the last winter
contract, traded at a discount to April,
a spring contract. And most importantly,
realized risk was higher than implied
risk. That means to say that options
traders were discounting this event. Now
we come into the weekend, the MLK
weekend. The weather forecast shifts.
Now all that deep freeze goes further
south all the way down to Texas,
Louisiana. So now threearters of US
production is now under stress. So
you're looking at a market that was
completely complacent at the coldest
time of winter and now they are
scrambling for BTUs. What we saw today
is PGM, the largest grid operator, uh
went ahead and told utilities, you have
to secure your gas supply, not just for
the normal one day ahead. They have to
go ahead now and secure it for one week
ahead. So they are now forcing utilities
to buy gas at the worst possible time
and utilities are paying up for that
gas.
>> Why did they discount this event so much
Stephen
>> and that's a great question. Uh you know
historically we look back since dynamics
started trading natural gas the contract
in 1990. Historically by this point in
the winter we've already seen the high
price for spot gas. Typically, we see
the highest highest price paid in about
the first or two first two weeks of
December. And this is generally because
we go into the winter, you have a runup.
We don't know what the winter's going to
look like, but by December, you have a
feeling of where we're going, where
supply is, where demand is, and then
prices tend to drift off through uh the
winter, even during cold winters. So the
market was extremely overconfident in
history repeating itself to the point
where large institutional investors when
you look at the commitment of traders
report under the category of other
reportables their position right before
this coldfront was they were short two
NYX contracts for every one contract
they were long so they were extremely
vulnerable. So you had large speculators
that were completely just un under uh
pinning or excuse me underwriting or or
just not assuming this was just going to
be the event it has turned out to be.
Now that we have the weather forecast
coming out, not only is it cold now, the
deep freezes here, if you look at the
Noah chart going out to the third week
of February, what you're seeing now is
cold sticking around from Chicago out to
the east. So this cold doesn't look to
be going away. And this is very
important because as I said before last
week they were underounting uh the risk
in the February contract. Well the
February contract expires Wednesday.
There's this automatic assumption
because February is trading at such a
large premium now to the March contract
which turns prompt on Thursday. There's
an assumption oh well when the cold
passes the market's going to come
crashing down. Don't count on it because
look at March. They're now looking at
realized risk, historical volatility,
what we've actually seen this market
price variance as opposed to what
options traders are now pricing. They're
still underpricing a weather event for
the March contract. So, we're certainly
not out of the woods at this point.
>> It's a big move, Stephen. Appreciate
your time. Stephen Shaw there with the
Short Group. Stay warm, sir. It's good
to see you. Front month futures above
six for the first time since December
22. That is a major move.
>> Historic rally. And Steven says that
this is not going to crash in February.
this is going to continue what he thinks
in March and you already see the
premiums being paid up by the
industries. What does this mean for the
everyday consumer? Higher prices
potentially electricity bills.
>> Yeah, things are getting expensive and
getting even more expensive. Let's give
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief. A
massive winter storm hitting the US East
Coast on Sunday, bringing heavy snow and
ice, straining electric grids and
grounding thousands of flights. More
than 1 million homes and businesses
across the US losing electricity.
[music]
Elsewhere, Senate Democratic leader
Chuck Schumer vowing to block a massive
spending bill unless Republicans strip
funding for the Department of Homeland
Security. Schumer's announcement coming
after an ICE agent shot and killed a US
citizen in Minnesota during protest this
weekend. [music] And finally, Samsung is
close to getting certification from
Nvidia for its AI memory chip HBM4.
[music] Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the company entered the final
qualification phase and is preparing for
mass production in February. [music] And
that right there is your Bloomberg
brief. Up next, the return of the South
America trade.
>> I would kind of describe it as a quiet
quitting of of US bonds.
>> Diversifying away from the US and also
from the dollar is a quite dangerous
bet.
>> If your fiscal house is not in order,
the bond vigilantes can come out and
extract their price.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Bel Michael
of JP Morgan from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance. Here's
[music]
a snapshot of the price action so far
this Monday morning. Good morning to
[music] you all. Equities are down by
about a tenth of 1% on the S&P, down a
quarter on the NASDAQ. Bond yields just
a little bit lower, down a basis point
on 10 to 421. Under surveillance this
morning, the return of the South America
trade.
>> I think [music] there is going to be
some marginal move away. I would kind of
describe it as a quiet quitting of of US
bonds.
>> Diversifying away from the US and uh
also from the dollar is a quite
dangerous bet. The US bond market is
still the most liquid market in the
world and it is still the closest thing
to a risk-free asset that there actually
is. [music]
>> If your fiscal house is not in order,
the bond vigilantes can come out and
extract their price.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Treasury volatility fading after
geopolitical tensions triggered a
massive sell off in US government debt.
Bob Michael of JP Morgan Asset
Management writing, "We do not see
evidence of a sell America version 2.0
trade." Bob joins us now for more. Bob,
welcome to the program. We used that
phrase massive sell-off. It lasted like
five minutes and it wasn't that large.
The massive sell-off was actually in the
Japanese debt market. And Bob, this
morning I'm more intrigued by how stable
the bond market is, not how vulnerable
it is. It's impressed me how stable it's
been given the convulsions we've seen in
places like Japan. Bob, what explains
that?
>> Uh, good morning, John. When I look at
the bond market, I think it's about as
perfectly priced as you could have a
bond market. Look at the two-year. It's
right at the Fed funds rate, which is
perfect. Look at the slope out to the
10-year. It's 50 to 60 basis points.
That's textbook. Look at where we are in
the US economy. We're gliding along at
trend, maybe a little bit above trend.
When you look at credit spreads, they're
pricing that in. I don't know what more
we could ask from the US bond market. I
like it here. I hope the Fed stays on
hold. This will give investors plenty of
opportunity to get into a bond market
that's fairly priced with a lot of yield
in it.
>> So Bob, it depends where those investors
are coming from because yes, we haven't
seen the South America trade of the bond
market, but we've seen it in foreign
exchange. Bob, how do you consider the
moves we're seeing in FX with your
approach to say fixed income?
>> Well, this is a very different FX market
than March to August of last year. March
to August of last year, we were working
with our non- US client base non-stop
thinking about alternatives to dollar
exposure. We're not seeing any of that
right now. Yeah, there's discomfort with
US policy. There's some dissatisfaction,
but in the end, our client base is
looking at the breath and depth of the
US markets and deciding they want to be
there. The kind of movements we've seen
have been market participants pushing FX
around. That can only go so far.
>> Bob, what do you make though, and I know
it's small, but there are some countries
that want to divest away from the United
States, including dumping treasuries. If
we have more geopolitical or political
risk from this administration, can you
see that becoming a trend?
>> It's possible. I think what we've seen
so far can be politely termed as
decorative relative to the breadth and
depth and size of the US Treasury
market. I think the Treasury and the
administration would work very closely
with the holders of large Treasury
positions. So I'm not concerned. Listen,
for several years now, market
participants have been looking for an
alternate reserve currency to the US
dollar. You're seeing that in gold now.
It makes sense. But you know what? We're
sitting on a diversified bond portfolio.
Little bit of investment grade and high
yield that's yielding 6%. Gold's got to
go up half a percent a month from here.
Otherwise, you're better off in bonds.
>> Gold right now is up by about 2%. It's a
massive move over the last four years or
so. I think Bob, it's worth every time
we have this conversation about selling
US fixed income, it's worth pointing out
that overseas holdings of treasuries at
the back end of last year hit the
highest on record. But I understand
where the fear is coming from, and we
can get into that now. The fear is
coming from this idea that maybe some of
the money that was traditionally
invested into US assets will go home.
And not just because of what's happening
in America, but because of what's
happening domestically elsewhere. Bob,
that's why Japan's important here. The
great repatriation trade that people
have been talking about over the last 12
months. Bob, any signs developing as y
in Japan get to higher levels? Is the
money coming back home into JGBs?
>> So last Monday, while you guys were on a
skiing jolly, I was back at the Coalace,
a lot more worried last Monday than I am
this Monday. I feel there's some sense
of calm that's been restored to the
markets. So I can live with where yields
are in Japan currently. When you look
across the global spectrum, it's hard to
find fiscal discipline anywhere. Of
course, that's going to worry some
central bankers. Of course, that's going
to worry bond market participants. What
we've seen in Japan is a wakeup call
that bond vigilantes are back. There's
only so much that we're going to put up
with.
>> What is it that's unique about Japan,
Bob, where they can live and thrive?
What's unique about that particular
market that is going to keep elsewhere
insulated?
Well, it's been off on its own for
coming on to 30 years now. It it lived
with zero and negative interest rates
for a long time while the rest of the
world went through uh the normal
cyclical pattern. It's heavily
controlled by both the MOF, the Bank of
Japan, and the city banks. So there are
things that can happen in Japan that can
compel buying of the long end of the
curve to stabilize things.
>> Bob Michael, just before you go, was
Jamie Diamond also on a ski jolly last
week? Just want clarification. Or was he
working?
>> Savage.
>> He's the hardest working banker I know.
>> Of course he is. Well said, Bob. I'm
just I'm just there for you in your
corner making sure you're saying the
right things. Bob Michael of JP Morgan
Asset Management. Bob, thank It's
interesting how of course we the
journalists were busy skiing but of
course the CEO his bank is very busy
having very important meetings telling
off you know he was kind of telling off
Washington in in a polite way but he did
his you know talking to the policy
makers
>> Bob's point about Japan last week was of
concern I think for Japanese policy
makers and I'm not sure they've put that
concern to bed just yet
>> they haven't I mean they have a snap
election and they're going to shore up
their grip on power and you're going to
see a lot of fiscal impulse You know who
else was nervous what was going on in
Japan last week and you heard him talk
about it at Davos, the Treasury
Secretary.
>> Yeah,
>> which is why some people are thinking
about joint intervention possibly. At
least that's what's keeping things
keeping things settled this morning with
dollar yen back down by what we're
negative 1% back down to about 154 this
morning,
>> right? When the New York Fed comes out
and does these rate checks of
individuals who might want to buy, that
is basically the precursor for
intervention and that's where the market
at least right now is thinking
potentially we could be headed. Are we
the only people in Midtown Manhattan?
>> I think so.
>> And Bob was at home.
>> Unbelievable.
>> Getting things done.
>> Getting things done. Maybe he's on his
uh skill.
>> He's on his ski jolly. Yeah, he's on his
ski jolly at home in the backyard. Up
next on the program, Judy Bill of Kane
Addison Rodnick, Sammy Sith of Raymond
[music] James, Seth Carpenter of Morgan
Stanley, and Mchugh of PSP Growth from
New York. The third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
After 20 years of financial repression,
we're back to live markets. The market's
probably going to take off again.
>> We still see a lot of upside opportunity
in US markets.
>> I wouldn't really bet against the US.
>> The US bond market is still the closest
thing to a risk-free asset that there
actually is. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Back to back weekly losses on the S&P
500. More so far this morning, live from
New York this morning. Good morning.
Good morning. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
Your price action looks like this. We're
down about a tenth on the S&P, down by
210 on the NASDAQ. On the Russ cap's
down by 0.15 in the precious metal
space, a massive move. Gold through 5K
for the first time ever, up by 1.8%.
Silver up by even more, up by 5.6. A
stacked week ahead, including a Federal
Reserve interest rate decision, an
address from the president of the United
States, and a lot of tech earnings from
Microsoft Meta and from Apple.
>> A huge week ahead. You have to think of
what's going on right now. The so-called
potential debasement trade is backed.
But Jonathan, [music] to your point,
you've been very good about bringing
this up. It's in the dollar, but hasn't
been in treasuries. This morning from
UBS is Paul Donovan. Politics overwhelms
sentiment [music] and that is what we
are seeing in gold. Whether it's inside
the United States and the domestic
policy that's happening right now and
the whole country on edge and
potentially a [music] partial government
shutdown starting this week at the end
of the week or what's going on in the
geopolitical space, central bank buying,
the fact [music] that geopolitical
tensions are also heightened. All of
that is driving into the precious metal.
>> Not much drama in the US bond market
right now. Yields down by two basis
points, tens at around 420 so far this
morning. How much drama will there be in
the news conference this coming
Wednesday with the chairman of the
Federal Reserve who would typically not
engage in questions about central bank
independence and policy coming out of
the White House. But things seems to
have changed for chairman Jay Pal.
>> He might flirt with some of those
questions this time as he hasn't in the
past. Also because he knows his
chairmanship is up. He also knows he has
the backing right now. What it feels
like at least in Congress them pushing
back at the White House. Senator Tom
Tillis saying to us, it's not the
person, it's the process. and he [music]
is not going to move ahead with whoever
the the administration decides going to
be the next Fed chair until what's going
on with this pro from the DOJ. [music]
There's a bow on it and and we have some
closure on it. So, I think there's going
to be a lot of questions potentially we
could see the chairman entertain at this
press conference.
>> If it's super icy in Washington, do they
do that meeting remotely? How does that
work?
>> Come on by Wednesday. I will say DC
[music] is terrible with the snow. They
they get like a centimeter or an inch
and you know, everyone just, you know,
fullon shut down. you can't work. It's,
you know, it's a tiny city. Like, come
on. You can get it together. But yeah, I
think by Wednesday, I mean, by
Wednesday, [music] let's hope that
they're back in the office.
>> We got to put some numbers on this big
freeze. This came from Adich, Bank of
America. I showed it earlier on this
morning. I'll share it again for you
just in case you missed it. The [music]
impact of Fern may drag down Q1 GDP by
anywhere between 0.5 to 1.5%.
>> We have to think who's at work today and
then who's going out and getting lunch
and who's going out and getting coffee.
everything pretty much to stopping to a
standstill. Every single guest we've had
that was supposed to be in studio is now
we getting a little getting a little bit
of an insight of what their house looks
like. They are working but they're
working remotely. When you look at how
many inches we have gotten, Central Park
more than 11 in Florida more than 13 in
Newark 11 in JFK, which is why you're
seeing all the flight delays, close to
11 in. Most flight cancellations since
co [music]
and that number this morning just keeps
up it up and ticking after more than
11,000 flights canceled over the
weekend. It's astonishing.
>> Big disruption in the last 24 hours.
Equities [music] just about unchanged.
They're down by a tenth of 1%. Here some
breaking news just to get to in just a
moment. Coming up this hour, Judy Bill
of Kane Anderson Runick with stocks
looking to bounce back. Seth Carpenter
of Morgan Stanley previewing Wednesday's
Fed decision and MQ of PSP growth with
earnings from four of the Magnificent
Seven on deck. We begin this hour with
some breaking news from Nvidia.
Bloomberg's Ed Lllo has more. Hey Ed.
>> Yeah, good morning John. Nvidia is going
to invest an additional $2 billion into
coreweave uh by purchasing common stock
at a price of $8720 a share stock right
now and pre-market up uh bouncing around
actually. I think there might be some
algo moves going on in that. You know,
when we spoke to Nvidia CEO Jensen Wong
last night in a Bloomberg interview, he
said, "This is simply about confidence
in Corewave, Coreweave's plan, Core
Weave's management to build out
capacity, accelerate data center
capacity." But we asked him, well, isn't
it circular financing? And his answer to
that was very simply, it's not circular
financing. It would be ridiculous to
call it that because it is a tiny
portion of what we know Callweave is
going to have to raise if they're able
to build out data centers to a level
where uh they can meet the demand that's
already out there. He also said that
it's basically consistent with the
investments they've made all over the AI
stack at a same level and push back
pretty hard on that. But unsurprising
that coreweave uh in reaction had a big
jump in the pre-market. What do the
investors that you speak to every single
day call if it's not circular financing
get? Doesn't it just look and smell like
circular financing?
>> You know, like the they they would say,
"Well, you have to discern between the
different deals." In some of of the the
investments Nvidia makes, they are
explicit that it's not a quid proquo. In
other words, the startup they're
investing in can take Nvidia's money,
but they're not required to use Nvidia
chips. In this case, coreweave now up
more than 9% in the pre-market. There is
a technology arrangement here as well.
So, one of the other big pieces of news
you see like AMD and Intel under
pressure in the pre-market is Nvidia is
going to start offering its CPU, not its
GPU, its CPU as a standalone offering
and Coreweave gets to be first to deploy
that. Um, you know, it's hard when it's
both a technology and financing
arrangement to to move past the circular
argument.
>> Big move from Coolwave up 9 10% at the
pre-market. Ed, are you seeing the other
chip makers take a similar approach with
other NeoCloud makers?
Yeah, you know I well the cloud makers
also you know that AMD the the distant
number two behind Nvidia in the market
for AI accelerators is doing exactly the
same thing with the frontier labs as
well right going directly to open AI
saying we're collaborating we're going
to agree on uh a a capacity deal where
the capacity is based on uh AMD chips
specifically um what to its credit core
has said is consistently the users The
customers of Corewave want Nvidia. So
even if there are other products out
there in the marketplace anyway, it's
Nvidia that they keep asking for. And
it's not just the latest generation of
Nvidia accelerators. Um I should have
got this terminal chart ready. I
apologize. But if you look at older
generations, we have this on the
terminal hopper for example. Those
obsolete older generations are seeing
their rental prices go up a lot at the
moment. Utilization's really high.
That's the story still whether AMD likes
that or not.
>> Ed, good to see you. Looking forward to
the program and the coverage of this
story a little bit later on Bloomberg
Technology. Ed Lello there. Let's stay
on the markets. Julie Bill of Kane
Anderson Runnik writing, "I think stocks
going up will require real earnings
growth and not just from the lucky few
and it could create more volatility."
Julie joins us now for more. Judy,
welcome to the program. I just want to
build on what Ed was talking about
there. That breaking news that Nvidia is
investing $2 billion in core class A
common stock. Is that circular
financing? Does it look like circular
financing to you?
We could get you a little bit.
>> Absolutely. That when you think of it
genuinely, it's a little bit like, you
know, these trust fund kids being
bolstered up by their dads and being
like, I am a producer, right? It's hard
to take it super seriously when you have
Daddy Jensen supporting you and thinking
that's going to be enough to kind of
propel this market forward. It you
really need to have a little bit more
growth and underlying economics. And I
think that's what makes everyone
nervous. The idea that you're going to
bolster your argument as Jensen and say
we've done a whole bunch of these. Well,
that doesn't tell you that it's not
circular financing, you know, and that
the structure of the deal isn't
structure isn't circular financing also
doesn't make a lot of sense to me.
>> Well, Jensen Wong told Bloomberg that he
thinks this idea is ridiculous.
Basically talking about that they have
the confidence in these companies. It's
only a small percentage for them. The
amount of money that they ultimately
have to go raise. But when you see deals
like this, what does it make you think
of the AI trade writ large? I I think
that the problem that we're coming to is
that we still don't have a lot of
clarity on firstly whether it's going to
be the most important thing to have the
large language models themselves or are
they going to become commodities. I
think that's concern number one and the
second thing is what are going to be the
underlying economics if adoption is not
as strong as people are hoping for.
Right? We continue to see studies of
companies trying to do pilots. they're
not quite working the way that you would
want. And that is going to slow
adoption, right? It's it's not good
advertising if everyone is saying,
"Yeah, I mean it it works. It's saved my
employee about 15 minutes every day." So
that's good. That's good. We should
spend, you know, billions of dollars for
that.
>> You also say that AI potentially, you
have this question mark whether or not
it's to blame for labor market softness.
Are you seeing that play out right now
in the business space?
I I just don't think that that's really
to blame just yet. I think the
productivity boost that we saw coming
out of the out of last year was more a
function of actually getting labor
markets where they need to be and much
more right-sized. We had so many we had
so much overhiring that happened in the
pandemic when there was this grab, this
mad dash for any kind of labor. You
could work at home with your dog on your
lap. It was no problem. We just needed
you in the seat. And I think businesses
have actually kind of digested a lot of
that and started to make the people that
they hired much more productive. I think
AI is going to be a massive productivity
tool. It's going to completely change
the nature of work, but as it stands
right now, outside of say probably
coding, it's probably not delivering on
the productivity growth that we're
hoping for. I really believe in it long
term. I just I probably don't think it's
in the here and now if co-pilot's making
this many mistakes.
>> I think it's fair to say there's a lot
of people working with dogs on their
laps today. I was thinking of Tom King
because he has that little fluffy white
dog.
>> TK was doing that from home on TV
through much of the pandemic with both
dogs and was not hiding it. Judy, let's
talk about some of the moves we've seen
in the equity market so far, small caps.
The outperformance of small caps so far
this year and whether you think that
appropriately reflects the amount of GDP
growth you think will be stimulated by
tax refund season at the early start of
this year.
Yeah, I I think that it's really hard to
have any kind of negativity on the US
market, at least for the first half of
the year, when you have this just
tsunami of stimulus that's coming
through fiscally. I think part of what
people's enthusiasm for small caps is is
they've really been left for dead and
there's this recognition that there are
certain parts of the more speculative
small caps kind of quantum and biotech
that have people the most excited. I
would say that you probably have a good
outlook for the US economy, but I would
be in higher quality tiers of small cap
rather than focusing on, you know, your
lowest quality, highest beta. There
should be a reversal. We haven't seen
kind of this level of move away from
quality and small cap in quite a while.
You have to expect the pendulum's going
to swing the other direction.
>> Judy, is there something that small caps
are insulated from that large caps are
exposed to? We keep bringing up this
question as we look down to Washington
and some of the headline risk. Is there
a story there?
>> Conceivably, you have to think a little
bit about the mix of the businesses that
are in the small cap index. So, you have
less technology than you used to. You
have more banks and real estate. But the
thing is is it's hard to really talk
about banks and real estate without
talking about interest rates and
interest rates are inherently an
international an international thing.
So, it's really hard to say whether
they're completely divorced because many
of the drivers in in small caps are
really about interest rates. So, I would
say broadly speaking, yes, there are
places where you can be more insulated,
but we have a very global economy and a
lot of these factors are well are
pushing these stocks around as well.
>> Julie, good to see you as always. Julie
Bill there of Kane Anderson Run looking
ahead to some of the tech earnings we
get this week. Meta and Microsoft on
Wednesday, Thursday we get Apple. Let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning. Here is your Bloomberg
brief. Coreweave shares rallying
following a $2 billion investment from
Nvidia. The chip maker announcing it
will begin selling CPUs [music] as
standalone products. Coreweave will be
among the first to deploy them. Nvidia
CEO Jensen Wang telling us here at
Bloomberg he the move reflects growing
confidence in Core's business model.
Elsewhere, a powerful winter storm
blanketing much of the US East Coast
with heavy snow and sleep. more than 1
million homes and businesses across the
US losing electricity and the airlines
canled the [music] most flights since
the co9 pandemic. And finally, the Trump
administration investing 1.6 billion
[music] into USA rare earth in exchange
for 10% stake in the mining company. USA
rare earth is also raising 1.5 billion
in private [music] investment to
accelerate domestic heavy rare earth
production. Her stock is up by close to
20%. That is your Bloomberg brief. Up
next, the morning cause plus savvy sith
of Raymond James with airlines looking
to get back to normal after massive
cancellations. [music] From New York
City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
The banking sector has had some strong
earnings coming in that all of a sudden
throws some potential cold water on what
could happen there on the earnings
front. The concern would be that while
you have a reasonably good earnings
picture, which we think we do right now,
that anything that looks like it's going
to threaten that earnings picture is
going to be problematic because that is
what is going to drive equity prices.
>> That was Sarah Hunt of Alpine Saxon
joining the program a little bit earlier
on this morning. If you're just joining
the show now, welcome. Equity futures
right now in the S&P just about
unchanged. The up and down 1 hour and 14
minutes away. That's the price action.
Let's get you some more cause. First up,
Key Bank raising its price target on
Alphabet to 360 citing stronger cloud
growth and profitability. [music]
Elsewhere, Rothschild and Co. Redburn
upgrading Meta to buy, saying it upside
potential outweighs any near-term risks.
And finally, JP Morgan raising its price
tag on Apple to 315, [music] expecting
better than expected iPhone demand and
lower operating expenses. They're your
morning calls this morning. Let's turn
to [music] the weather. Nearly half of
the United States is experiencing
dangerous winter conditions. More than
800,000 homes and business are without
power. Bill Ward of AI weather is in
Greenville, South Carolina, and he joins
us now for more. Bill, welcome to the
program. The worst of the snow behind
us. How dangerous is the weather going
to be through the next several days?
Yeah, good morning. It is the
temperatures, the coldest air so far
this winter on the backside of this
storm that's the biggest safety concern
over the next few days for the hundreds
of thousands of people across the
country who are without power and
without heat here in Greenville, South
Carolina. A lot of people waking up to
this about an inch of sleet and ice all
over the place on the sidewalks and the
streets and then we had freezing rain
that fell on top of it. So you can
imagine, especially for people who live
down hills like this one all across the
south and southeast, they may be stuck
at home for several days. And when we're
talking about the widespread impacts of
this winter storm, uh it's really
staggering the economic effect it's
having, uh more than 200 million people
impacted by this storm across more than
two dozen states. and ACU weather
experts estimate that the preliminary
total damage and economic loss for this
winter storm 105 billion to 115
billion dollars. I mean, that is a lot
of money we're talking about here with
the travel shutdowns. We were in Atlanta
earlier for the storm where one of the
busiest airports in the world had
thousands of flight cancellations. And
then you think about all of the
business, all of the commerce, all of
the rail disruptions, and especially
along the ice storm section, the
southern side of the storm where there
are extended power outages, businesses
could be shut down for days. And if they
don't have emergency generators or if
those generators fail or run out of
fuel, then we're talking about goods,
groceries, pharmaceuticals that go bad
that can't be refrigerated. So very
impactful storm. Just to put this in a
big picture context, ACUE weather
experts say this winter storm is the
most economic impactful US weather
disaster since last January. That's when
we had the California wildfires uh
causing an estimated 250 billion to$ 275
billion in a total damage and economic
loss according to ACU weather. So it's
been about a full year since we have
seen a large economic US weather impact
like this one. Remember, we did not have
any hurricanes making landfall in the US
this past season.
>> Wow, that's some context. It's also a
messy commute, Bill, here up in New York
when it comes to what's going the Long
Island Railroad and also some of the
other trains right into, you know, the
main metropolitan area of New York City.
What does the rest of the week look like
given we're going to get cold
temperatures?
>> Absolutely. It's it's going to be tough.
the cleanup, the the plowing, all of
that is really slowed because of the
really cold arctic air that is surging
in on the back end of this. Uh the
Midwest, I mean, Acue is forecasting
real field temperatures 30 to 60° below
zero at times this week. So, big safety
concerns even even, you know, for people
who do have power and who are outdoor
workers, they are dealing with trying to
clean up these icy streets and the snow.
But again, that cold is going to slow
down the cleanup process here and that's
why we're saying that economic impact it
is going to linger for days and of
course in the hardest hit areas weeks or
longer.
>> Hey Bill, good to see you. Stay warm
sir. Thanks for catching up with us.
Bill W there of Acue weather. Let's turn
to the airlines. The storm leading to
the most flight cancellation since the
co 19 pandemic. Sammy Sith of Rayma
James joins us now for more. Savvy,
welcome to the program. As you look
across the airlines, the airports across
this country in the last 24 hours, who
was hardest hit?
Hey, good morning. You know, it's it's
fairly broad-based obviously to begin
with. You saw American getting hit just
given what happened in Dallas, but but
all the airlines are having significant
cancellations. However, how what I would
kind of remind is the nice the nice
thing of a winter storm, as much as
there could be something nice about it,
um is that you do see it coming unlike
summer storms. And so I would chalk up a
lot of Sunday's cancellations which were
significant for airlines making sure
that the aircraft and crew are in place
so that once the storm passes they can
get back uh to flying uh relatively
quickly. Now there are high level of
cancellations today but nowhere nearly
as many as there were on Sunday. So, you
know, as long as folks can kind of get
out of their houses and get to the
airports, we expect, you know, the
operations to start resuming because
airlines had some early warning and were
able to prepare ahead of time.
>> Well, 3,600 in counting for today,
Savvy, when it comes to the
cancellation. So, when do you think we
truly will be back to quote unquote
normal?
>> Yeah, it you know, what we're seeing
today is a little bit similar to what
you saw on Saturday, so elevated. Um, it
we'll see. It really depends on, you
know, how the kind of the winter
progresses and and getting crews to the
airports. But I sus suspect by midweek
we'll be back to normal. Um if not
already by tomorrow.
>> Savvy, I don't want to um make this
worse for the airlines, but potentially
could be a perfect storm this weekend.
What happens if the US government does
shut down?
>> We'll have to see. uh if you saw what
happened last time, what I would say
kind of from the lessons learned last
time is that demand didn't have an
impact. Uh the the impact really came
once you got to the end and the FAA kind
of required cancellations. I think
that's when you really started to see
demand being impacted and maybe even a
little bit before that. Um once the uh
shutdown was about a month in, I think
you started to see a little bit of
impact, but at least early days there
isn't much of an impact. you do have TSA
agents and um FAA workers, you know,
really showing up uh even though, you
know, they might miss a check in a in a
week or two. Um so hopefully we don't
get a shutdown. Hopefully it doesn't if
we do get one, it doesn't last as long
as it did last time and doesn't come to
the brickmanship that it came to last
time.
>> Let's finish on an airline that's really
shown up not in the last 24 hours, but
in the last 12 months. This from the
Wall Street Journal, airline of the
year, Southwest. Safy, what is Southwest
doing right?
>> Yeah, I mean, I I think uh they learned
their lesson uh after the winter storm
of uh in in December 2024
um and and really or 23 and and really
kind of improved uh and invested um in
their operation. They probably also
benefit a little bit from from being in
the right geographies, but more so it is
what uh Southwest has done um to really
focus on on managing the operation and
and I would kind of point out that they
did this you know had this performance
at a time that the airline was going
through a significant change in uh you
know their product offering and
strategy. So uh definitely a commendable
result there.
>> The performance gap in a stock market
between a Southwest and American
Airlines couldn't be wider. I mean
Southwest was up by more than 20% last
year and American Airlines was down by
more than 10. Savvy, what is American
Airlines getting wrong? And
incidentally, by the way, they are joint
last in this survey. This Wall Street
Journal airline award of the last year
or so. They came joint last. What is
American Airlines doing wrong?
>> I mean, I think American also had the
unfortunate uh you know, incidents that
uh hampered them early on uh last year.
So that also had a had a hit on American
but I think you are seeing them making
some changes this year. Um you've you
know they announced it in December about
kind of adding a little bit more uh you
know schedule uh uh cushion so that they
can make connections. They are trying to
do that but yes definitely on the
operation side both kind of internally
um what they could control and then
externally what they couldn't control
really hurt them last year. In terms of
kind of stock performance, I think again
Southwest has come up with a very
credible plan on turning around their
earnings and you're starting to get
early signs that maybe they can execute
to that. Still a lot of, you know,
skepticism in the market, but I think
America really needs to come up come up
and show that they can do something
similar this year as well. There are
kind of early signs that they're uh
trying to do that, but but they really
have to kind of put up the numbers.
>> They've really got to step up big time.
Savvy, good to see you. Sammy Sith of
Raymond James on the airlines and travel
and the situation of the past 24 hours.
Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Seth Carpenter of Morgan Stanley
previewing Wednesday's Fed rate
decision. Plus, Danny's back with your
morning movers. Coreweave shares surging
after a 2 billion investment from
Nvidia. Coreweave higher by close to 10%
in the pre-market. Live from New York
City this morning. Good morning. You're
[music] watching Bloomberg TV.
Heat. Heat.
[music]
>> [music]
>> 60 minutes away from the open and bal
equity futures slightly negative just
about unchanged on the S&P so far. We're
down about 210 on the NASDAQ going into
[music] a big week for earnings from big
tech that starts on Wednesday into
Thursday. We're counting down to the
cash open. Let's get you some single
names, some morning [music] movers.
Here's Danny with more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Let's start with that big move
in gold surpassing above $5,000. That's
moving the miners this morning. Newmont
O shares up 3.8%. Bareric Mining up 3
and a3%. Both of those will open likely
close at new records too after already
reaching new [music] records on Friday.
Elsewhere, some breaking news coming in
the last 30 minutes that open uh not
open AI. You'd forgive me for being
mistaken. Nvidia is investing $2 billion
in core. It's already invested in core
reef. This just adds to it. Part of its
mission to get 5 gawatts of AI energy
running by 2030. Uh just to put this in
context, that's only 2% of what core
even wants to spend on [music] its
infrastructure. Cororeef shares up 9%.
Nvidia little change this morning.
Finally, another deal to wrap things up.
The US government confirming earlier
reporting and announcing that they are
making a $1.6 billion investment, a
non-binding agreement into USA rare
earth. They're also getting over a
billion dollars in a private investment,
too, hoping to speed up the development
and digging out of the ground [music] of
those rare earth metals. So, those
shares soaring just under 20% in the
pre-market trade. John,
>> big move again. Danny, thank you. Losing
count and we're all asking who's next
because you have to imagine someone's
[music] next in
>> uh Intel Lithium Americas. There have
been half a dozen companies that this
administration has gone out taken equity
stakes and saying this is because of
national security. And [music] yes, when
you see a company, especially with the
words rare earth in the title, you can
expect other similar companies that have
anything to do with [music] either
processing those rare earths, finding
those rare earths, they are going to
potentially have an eye of this
administration.
>> To your point, they've made themselves
easy to find, right, with a name like
that one. That's the latest on that
front. Let's turn to the Federal
Reserve. Trade is looking ahead to the
first central [music] bank decision of
the year. Joining us now to discuss is
Bloomberg's Ender Karen. Ender, welcome
to the program. This one with some
additional spikes potentially in the
news conference given Chairman Pal's
more assertive posture towards the White
House.
Indeed, it's going to be a lot of policy
and a lot of politics. John, uh, you
know, on the policy side, as you know,
well, they're not expected to move, but
still a lot of interest around any fresh
commentary on are they any closer to the
neutral rate, for example, and where are
they now in the labor market? any hint
of confidence that they think the labor
market may have stabilized. But really,
it's on the polit political side where
all the folks will be in that press
conference. Uh given the Department of
Justice subpoenas on the Fed since the
last Fed meeting, Chair Powell will be
asked about it. He'll be expected to
comment. He probably won't dive too deep
into the legal side of that, but it will
be interesting to see whether or not he
doubles down on his broader commentary
around this being an attack on the
independence of the Federal Reserve. So,
like I say, lots of policy and politics,
but I think more interest in the
politics this week.
>> Well, Ender, let's stay on the politics
and the process. You're tracking a horse
race, I'm sure. Who's in front, who's
behind with regards to the race to
replace Chairman Pal. Now, Amry and I
were talking to Senator Tillerson in the
last week or so. Do you think people are
underestimating just how long this could
actually take to get that person,
whoever it might be, nominated and
confirmed down in Washington, DC? I
think that's a real complication, John.
It's not a complication many people saw
at the start of the of the year. I mean,
to your point, no matter which name the
president nominates, whenever that
comes, and they've said it's coming soon
publicly, and our colleagues in the
White House have been reporting that,
you know, Black Rock's Rick Reer
certainly seems to have gone ahead of
the pack at the moment. But whichever
name comes out of that pack, they are
going to have to somehow get through the
Senate confirmation process. And as you
mentioned, Senator Tillis has said he
will not budge. He will not approve any
Fed nominee until this DOJ threat
against the Fed is fully resolved. And
of course, that begs the question, what
does fully resolved mean? When do we get
to that point? How do we get to that
point? And of course, there's a whole
other dynamic going on in the background
then as well around does Chair Powell
stay in that committee, keep his seat
there, what would that mean for Governor
Maron, for example. So even though we'll
get we we we expect to get a headline
announcement on a new Fed chair at some
point soon, there's going to be a lot of
pieces of the jigsaw in the background
that still haven't been put in place and
there's going to be a lot that has to be
worked out in this. John
>> Ander, appreciate it. And Karen down in
Washington and Marie, this is so much
messier than it needed to be.
>> And if you know that the Senate is going
to be a potential hurdle and they're not
going to budge until the DOJ
investigation is wrapped up, then
potentially why would you make the
announcement so soon? which is why the
president keeps saying a week, two
weeks. We've been saying that literally
for months, which is why I think
potentially this can drag on for a lot
longer than this administration was
expecting. And you have to think the
Treasury Secretary is pulling out his
hair because this was supposed to be
swift.
>> Let's stay on the Federal Reserve and
we'll talk policy. Seth Carpenter and
Morgan Stanley writing, "We push
expected Fed cuts to June and September.
Lower unemployment suggests inflation
will play a larger role in rate
decisions." Seth joins us now for more.
Seth, welcome to the program. This is
something of a theme for you and the
team over at Morgan Stanley. So, let's
get into it. It was the labor market
driving decisions at the back end of
last year. How important is the other
side of the mandate going to be in the
back half of this year?
>> One of the key things to remember is the
Fed seems to have fairly squarely come
down on the view that the inflation
that's coming from tariffs is temporary,
that it's going to fade on its own. And
so we still think there's more of that
tariff-driven inflation to pass through
through the first quarter of this year.
And then inflation should peak and start
to come down. And for us, that really
will be critical for the Fed. If that
plays out along those lines, they'll get
confirmation that the tariff driven
inflation was temporary. And then
they'll start to ask themselves, okay,
how soon can we pull policy down to
something that's neutral so that they're
not getting in the way of the economy
growing, uh, but they're also not
necessarily stimulating things because
ultimately there is this tension that
the spending data have been reasonably
solid, but the it's the employment data
that have been soft. They pulled the
policy rate down a lot in response to
the soft employment data. Things still
look like they're chugging along. Our
forecast is that even if you get choppy
data in the first quarter, the
underlying trend is there and things
will keep chugging along. And so I do
think they're in a holding pattern given
the strength in the economy waiting for
inflation to decisively start to move
back down towards target.
>> Seth, it's interesting. We're talking
about this sort of trend line back
towards target, these disinflationary
forces. At the same time, this phrase
has come from you and the team, I
believe, in the last few weeks. And that
phrase is overheating. The risk of
overheating. How great, Seth, is the
risk of overheating. in the first half
of this year.
>> I mean, I think it's something we have
to pay a lot of attention to. The
underlying strength of the US economy is
is there. We are seeing clearly um
spending on the household side from the
top end of the income distribution
that's been quite strong. We're seeing
the cap capex spending driven by AI
that's been quite strong. I think the
real question becomes what happens with
the labor market. It's been soft. Does
that start to catch up to the aggregate
spending uh in the economy? Do we start
to see even more spending? Maybe because
we have underestimated just how much the
uh fiscal package from last year
contributed to spending this year. I
think there's a real consideration there
uh that aggregate demand is just
fundamentally stronger and that could
over time lead to overheating in the
economy. The unemployment rate, we got
one reading where it ticked back down.
That was a surprise for us. Was that
noise or was that signal? If it's
signaled, then I think the overheating
risk is is is is there.
>> If we are thinking about potentially
overheating in this economy, what would
it mean if we get a Fed chair nomination
that is very close to this
administration?
>> I mean, I think there's a lot of
considerations. The first thing to keep
in mind is you all were talking before
about the different names. Uh I I would
just say if you think about all the
names that have been floated publicly
and consistently, none of them is
particularly far outside of mainstream
thinking. None of them is is sort of a
completely uh unusual name who who who
thinks about the world in a
fundamentally different way. That's one
point. Another point is decisions on
policy really do get made by a
committee. And this committee is uh
they're they're torn right now about
whether or not they cut at this meeting,
how much to cut, all of those sorts of
things, but they're not torn about going
to zero versus going to 10%. So the
committee itself is pretty solidly in an
orthodox place. What that means is even
a chair coming in who traditionally has
had a lot of influence on the committee,
you're not going to be able to get a
massively different outcome for policy
than what the committee would have done
otherwise unless and until you get such
a huge turnover on the board. And so for
this year, I really think the reaction
function for the Fed is more or less
business as usual. Seth, would it be
business as usual if Jay Powell, because
the DOJ investigation is not wrapped up,
stays on longer than his chairmanship
should be expired?
>> Um, I do [clears throat] think so in in
the following sense. Uh, Chair Powell
has been very clear and I and I very
much take him at his word. He is focused
on doing the mandate of the Congress for
the Federal Reserve, maximum sustainable
employment, uh, stable prices based on
the available data, analytics, and
judgment. I think if he were to stay on,
he would redouble his efforts to just
try to stay very much on that narrow
path. Uh, and so in that regard, I I
think it keeps sort of uh business as
usual for the reaction function of the
Fed. Seth, any outstanding questions
that you think need to be asked on
Wednesday or is this a bit of a snoozer?
>> Uh, I mean, I really do think um there's
there are questions that the the
reporters in the room should ask in
terms of how much conviction does the
does the chair have and does the
committee have about the ultimate
temporary nature of of of tariff driven
inflation? Remember, chair Powell got a
lot of heat for having called COVID
driven inflation transitory. Now the
committee have gone back to the well and
said that the inflation from tariffs is
going to be temporary or some other
adjective. Uh I think that's a place
where there's probably a bit more
pushing that could be done.
>> Seth, good to see you. No doubt Mike
McKe's listening and he'll make that
push. Thank you, sir. Seth Carpenter
there of Morgan Stanley on the Federal
Reserve. Basically, the way things are
set up at the end of last year, the
labor market drove the eventual rate
cuts we got from the Federal Reserve.
team at Morgan Stanley believes it'll be
the disinflation they're anticipating in
the back half of this year that's going
to unlock the door for more rate cuts
further down the road.
>> When it comes to tariffs though,
actually, uh, Amazon CEO speaking at
Davos was talking about the fact that
they're finally starting to see some of
that pass through of the tariff induced
inflation starting to creep into some of
those businesses that they sell on their
website. So potentially this is going to
be back to tariffs once again when it
comes to the press conference in JPAL.
Besides all the political noise that
he's definitely going to get questions
about,
>> could this should be the experience of
the last 12 months. So many people were
burnt by that call. They just don't seem
to be making that call this year.
They're not looking for that
inflationary bump from those tariffs. If
you're just joining us, welcome to the
program. Equities down by only a tenth
of 1% so far this morning. Let's give
you an update on stories elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief. First up, Corewave
shares jumping in the pre-market after
Nvidia announced a new partnership with
a $2 billion investment. Coreweave will
be among the first to deploy new NVIDIA
CPU chips and storage systems.
Elsewhere, a massive winter storm
hitting the US East Coast on Sunday,
bringing heavy snow and ice, straining
electric grids and grounding thousands
of flights. More than 800,000 homes and
businesses [music] across the US are
without power. And finally, in sports,
the matchup is set for Super Bowl 60.
The New England Patriots taking on the
[music] taking on Seattle after
defeating the Denver Broncos, while the
Seahawks took down the LA Rams. The
Patriots are eyeing an NFL record,
seventh Super Bowl title with the
Seahawks, hoping to win their second.
You got rid of the Chiefs. You ended up
with the Patriots all over again.
>> Yeah, we're back to the Patriots. I just
feel like deja vu. I've actually [music]
worn that Patriots ring before and I
guess they're going to try to go for
another Super Bowl ring. It's massive.
>> Up next on the program, less football
will set you up for a day ahead in the
week ahead. Plus, my queue of PSP growth
[music] with key tech earnings on deck
this week from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
>> I don't think there's any uncertainty
about AI. I sincerely believe there is
no bubble in the AI space.
>> The idea that this technology becomes
obsolete or useless after 3 years or 2
years, it's bunk.
>> The US has been ahead in the digital
race and because you need a digital
foundation that US uh based companies
are ahead.
>> This is the largest infrastructure
buildout in human history. That's going
to create a lot of jobs.
>> Society will have more production. We're
going to we're going to cure a lot of
cancers. You're not going to slow it
down.
Fantastic lineup of guests in the last
week or so from Davos, Switzerland at
the World Economic Forum weighing in on
the future of AI. And I have to say it
was very difficult to find anyone who
wasn't bullish on that particular thing.
>> I don't think there was anyone who was
not bullish on AI. Everyone out there
was very constructive, especially when
it comes to the concerns about what it
means for [music] the labor market or
concerns about things like circular
finance. It was no, you're you got it
wrong. This is going to be the trade.
And there's always dislocations when
you're moving with new technologies, but
this is going to be ultimately
productive and good for society and the
economy.
>> More on that story in just a moment. The
price action looks like this going into
the open and bell. Equity futures
unchanged on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ,
down by 210 of 1%. As we count you down
to the open and bell, the trading dive
for the week ahead looks like this. At
2:30 p.m. Eastern, [music] the president
participating in a policy meeting. On
Tuesday, the president speaking in Iowa
and results from American Airlines and
General Motors. Wednesday, an FOMC rate
decision and Fed chair JPAL news
conference, plus earnings from
Microsoft, [music] Meta, Tesla.
Thursday, another round of jobless
claims and Apple earnings. Then on
Friday, PPI [music] and a deadline
that's becoming increasingly important
over the last few days, the government
funding deadline.
>> Yep. Potentially the odds of a partial
[music] government shutdown have went
right up this weekend given what is
going on in Minnesota. Senate Minority
Leader Chuck Schumer came out and vowed
that he will not vote yes and neither
will his caucus on passing through the
appropriations bill that we need to
[music] keep the government open if DHS
funding is linked to that. So right now
everyone is expecting [music] a
government shutdown. Guess what? The
House is out of session and we're a
storm and they're going to have to come
back. It's going to get a little bit
messy in Washington.
>> That's one to watch going into the
weekend this week. Let's talk about
those tech earnings. Mandep Singh of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now with
a preview of this week's results and a
sneak peek of next week as well with
Alphabet and Amazon on deck in early
February. Mandy, welcome to the program.
What are you focused on when these guys
report later this week?
Look, I mean for me it's always about
cloud growth when it comes to the
hyperscalers and uh last quarter we saw
Microsoft hit uh 40% growth uh for their
Azure business and uh it was aided by uh
you know AI that's where all the capex
dollars are going. So you want to see
that cloud momentum carry on. Uh even uh
Alphabet saw 35% growth in their cloud
segment. So that to me is the real sort
of ROI indicator when it comes to uh
these capex investments. The other thing
to keep an eye is there was a push back
last quarter on Oracle in terms of you
know their debt really reaching a point
where a market felt it was reaching a
limit uh you know it exceeded their
operational cash flow. So would there be
any other company that would be put in
that sort of basket this quarter and
especially someone like Meta which plans
to spend over hundred billion dollars in
capex with no cloud business. I would be
curious to see how market reacts to you
know them raising capex. I mean
obviously their topline growth has been
super strong but that would be of
interest for me in terms of the push
back that market may have you know on
companies really spending more on capex.
Mandep I'm right there with you. I think
that's got to be an important one to
look for particularly given what we saw
in the final few months of last year and
what we saw from these guys the amount
they're spending. Mandepa I saw an
estimate a number that came from JP
Morgan asset management Michael Simless
put this out that 40% plus of the GDP
growth that came in the first three
quarters of last year came from the
spending of tech companies boost in
capex mandep ridiculous numbers. Do you
think with meta alone they're an
isolated case of weakness or are you
seeing other examples of that in the
space?
>> Look, I mean all the new cloud guys,
they're much smaller than a meta but at
the end of the day you are spending so
much upfront with the hope that it's
going to translate into recurring cloud
revenues down the line. Amazon as well.
any company that is now spending in
excess of their operational cash flow. I
think it's a fair question to be asked
in terms of how long will this last and
then what is uh the recurring revenue
down the line that investors can hope
for and if you don't have that
visibility which was the case with
Oracle that's where you start to see
push back. So I do think the new clouds
would also face that kind of scrutiny
and that's why this core NVIDIA
partnership is of significance because
now you have that Nvidia buffer in terms
of okay you have some cash that you're
getting from Nvidia to spend on
>> Mandep appreciate your take as always
sir thank you more from Mandep through
the week Mandep Singh there of Bloomberg
Intelligence to build on this
conversation mama Q of PSP growth joins
us now for more m welcome back to the
program I'm sure you heard some of the
comments from Mandep Singh just moments
ago do you believe this could over the
year of investor push back.
>> I think it depends on where you sit. Um
first of all, good morning. It's great
to be back on the show. Um big week for
tech earnings. Um investors are focused
on who is at the center of the AR AI
workload. We're shifting now from AI in
terms of building and training a model
to inference which is actually using it
in practice. Um so if you're sitting at
the core of AI infrastructure like we
saw with coreweave this morning, then
you're in a great spot. Uh we're even
seeing this not just in the public
markets but in the private markets there
are a lot of inference market leaders
out there like together foul um
fireworks base 10 that are seeing record
revenue growth. So the companies that
are positioned at the center of the AI
wave in terms of running and execution
um will be well positioned. If your
strategy is not necessarily at the core
of those, if you're still figuring out
your AI strategy, um then investors are
going to have scrutiny over you in terms
of where all that investment is going.
>> When it comes to the earnings we're get
this week and next week, you seem to be
a little bit more bullish on Alphabet
given what how investors feel about
Gemini. What does that mean for the
likes of say Meta and Microsoft?
Um I think for Meta and I would say
Apple probably were those two that where
investors are still trying to figure out
what is their AI strategy. Um Microsoft
uh Alphabet I think is going to be more
on execution. So investors can pretty
easily think about the positioning of
Microsoft and Alphabet in the new world
of AI. Um sure execution you might have
issues in terms of are they spending too
much on capex? Are they going to have
margin compression? But overall the
strategy is pretty sound. But when you
think about meta and you think about
Apple um they've had leadership
turnover. Uh they've tried a few things
in the past. Um you know metaverse which
is not directly AI but that still
affects investor confidence in their
ability to execute. So when your
strategy is not somewhere where investor
has full confidence then you're going to
have a lot more push back. And I would
put Meta and Apple in that latter camp.
>> Do you feel like the bar is very high
for these tech companies this week?
Absolutely. I think you are seeing
markets have a huge rally already right
over the last few quarters. So, anytime
that you have a high bar um just meeting
earnings is not enough. We've seen u
multiple examples uh in in recent weeks
where a company has beat earnings um but
yet their stock price has still uh
either gone down or at least stagnated
because investors are expecting even
more growth. So this is a a week where
just beating your numbers um uh is not
going to be enough. Investor has to have
confidence in one your overall growth
outlook but two as we've heard all week
uh investors confidence in your
durability in the new AI era.
>> Let's get beyond this week. Mame you're
a much much longerterm thinker than just
this week. Are you developing thoughts
about which part of the ecosystem will
struggle to make money ultimately?
Because clearly someone is going to make
a ton of money from this theme. I'm not
here to bet against the technology. This
is where the world is heading. But is
there a part of the ecosystem where you
think we'll struggle to make money?
>> I think you're going to see a lot of
compression on the application layer,
which is the part that touches the users
and touches the enterprise. Um, that's
the piece where margins need to get
squeezed. Um, there's going to be a lot
of competitive pressures. So, contrast
that to what we were talking about
earlier, right? Which is at the core of
the AI infrastructure, you're going to
have market leaders are going to be
pretty resilient. But as we've already
seen um in the weakness of their prices,
uh application layer software like
Salesforce and Adobe and Workday have
seen real weakness um this year and um I
would say in Q4 as well because they're
getting pressure from both the AI native
startups. They're getting pressure from
model uh companies like anthropic and
open AI trying to go up um and uh
capture the same same budget where they
they were previously dominant in. So, I
think that's the part where I don't know
exactly who's going to shake out, but
there's going to be compression and
someone's going to lose.
>> In the next 30 40 seconds, that's all we
have left. Forgive me. Is that kind of
the opposite of what we saw take place
with the internet boom?
>> I I would say um it's there's actually
parallels in my opinion, which is
anytime you have a technology shift,
you're going to have big winners and big
losers. So I think this is going to be
the case too where um there's going to
be a lot of winners and we'll stand by
to see who they are.
>> Mame Q of PSP Growth. Appreciate it.
Mame, thank you. Just thinking back to
the building blocks of the internet era
and the people who ultimately made money
10, 15 years later.
>> Yeah, exactly. I mean there's a lot of
parallels, but also you have to think of
all those risks. Remember everyone that
added com and internet to their titles?
True. Kind of felt that way at Davos
this year. AI and everything.
>> I know. I know. Down the whole
prominard, right? It's a little bit
overkill. I'm right there with you. I
felt it too. Coming up [music] tomorrow,
we'll catch up with Cameron Dawson of
New Edge Wealth, Evan Brown of UBS, the
former Kansas City Fed president Esther
George, and Joe Amato of New Ber B from
New York City.
>> Day eight at the Australian Open.
20-year-old Learner Tienne upset
three-time finalist Daniel Medvidev for
the second straight year as he took out
the Russian in three impressive sets.
And Koko Goff is into the last eight of
the slams for the 10th time in her
career after she took out Czecha's
Karolina Mukova in three sets. And don't
forget TC Live will keep you up to date.